quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk." 59quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk."risk factors 16 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. iii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2014 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including strategic, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation or action to which we are or could become a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading and clearing volume, market share or listed companies; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange . the nasdaq stock market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2013, the nasdaq stock market was home to 2,637 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $ 7.0 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, three options markets and an electronic platform for trading of u.s. treasuries. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic, and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. collectively, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. through nasdaq omx first north, our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies. as of december 31, 2013, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, together with nasdaq omx first north, were home to 75 8 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $ 1. 3 trillion . we also operate nasdaq omx armenia. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities operates the world largest power derivatives exchange regulated in norway and one of europe largest carbon exchanges. we also operate nos clearing asa, or nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for over-the-counter, or otc, traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. in the u.k., we operate nasdaq omx nlx, a new london-based market for trading of listed short-term and long-term european (euro and sterling denominated) interest rate derivative products. in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide investment firm, clearing, settlement and central depository services. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai, and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries. also in 2008, we expanded our business through the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, and the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx. these acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate options markets. in addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional u.s. cash equities markets. in 2010, we also grew our market services offerings with the acquisition of ften, inc., or ften, a leading provider of real-time risk management, or rtrm, solutions for the financial securities market. we also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. in 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of nord pool asa, or nord pool. as a result of this acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of nord pool. in july 2012, we acquired nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. 2 table of contents in august 2010, we acquired smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. in may 2012, we acquired a 72% ownership interest in bwise beheer b.v. and its subsidiaries, or bwise, a netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. these acquisitions have expanded our market technology business. in recent years, we have significantly grown our corporate solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. most recently, in 2013, we acquired the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, or the tr corporate solutions businesses. in 2013, we further expanded our market services and information services businesses by acquiring from bgc partners, inc. and certain of its affiliates, or bgc, certain assets and assumed certain liabilities, including 100% of the equity interests in espeed technology services, l.p., espeed technology services holdings, llc, kleos managed services, l.p. and kleos managed services holdings, llc; the espeed brand name; various assets comprising the fully electronic portion of bgc benchmark u.s. treasury brokerage, market data and co-location service businesses, or espeed. products and services since january 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. all prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. of our total 2013 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $ 1,895 million, 41 .0 % was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.3 % was from our information services segment and 23.7% was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our market services segment, 13.4% was from our listing services segment, 24.2% was from our information services segment and 17.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,690 million, 47.6% was from our market services segment, 14.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.1% was from our information services segment and 15.3% was from our technology solutions segment. prior to january 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. see note 19, business segments , to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income trading, and access and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide investment firm, clearing, settlement and central depository services. our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. in addition, espeed electronic benchmark u.s. t reasury brokerage and co-location service businesses are part of our market services segment. u.s. derivative trading and clearing. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx options for the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. during the year ended december 31, 2013, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 27. 9% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 18.2 % at nasdaq omx phlx, 8. 7 % at the nasdaq options market and 1 .0% at nasdaq omx bx options. together, the combined market share of 27.9 % represented the largest share of the u.s. equity options market and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. european derivative trading and clearing. nasdaq omx stockholm offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq omx clearing ab offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the central counterparty, or ccp. nasdaq omx clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. as a result of an agreement between the swedish money market council and nasdaq omx, a large portion of the swedish interbank resale and repurchase agreement market is cleared through nasdaq omx clearing. 3 table of contents nasdaq omx commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives, carbon and other commodities products. nasdaq omx commodities has over 300 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. nasdaq omx commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the ccp. we also operate nos clearing, a norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. in 2013, we launched a new london-based trading venue, nasdaq omx nlx, offering a range of both short-term interest rate and long-term interest rate euro-and sterling-based listed derivative products. u.s. cash equ ity trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities , matching an average of approximately 15.6 % of all u.s. cash equities volume for 2013. in the u.s., we also operate two additional cash equities markets, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx. with these markets, we offer a second and third quote within the u.s. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. all of our cash equities exchanges are run on our inet trading system, providing customers additional cash equity securities markets using familiar technology designed to provide fast and efficient trading. in accessing these markets, our customers can leverage existing infrastructure, reducing incremental costs when connecting. in 2013, nasdaq omx bx matched an average of approximately 2.5 % and nasdaq omx psx matched an average of approximately 0.7% of all u.s. cash equities volume. our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platforms: provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer); provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross and ipo cross; and provide anonymity to market participants (i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity), which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on our cash equities exchanges are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. our cash equities exchanges, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the joint self-regulatory organization plan governing the collection, consolidation, and dissemination of quotation and transaction information for nasdaq-listed securities traded on exchanges on an unlisted trading privileges basis, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, nyse mkt and other exchanges. through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally and is submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf charges market participants for locked-in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. 4 table of contents european cash equit y trading . nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. these exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic market data. the nordic exchanges also offer trading in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products . settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). as of december 31, 2013, nasdaq omx owns nasdaq omx tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq omx vilnius and nasdaq omx riga. in addition, nasdaq omx tallinn owns the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq omx riga owns the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq omx helsinki and nasdaq omx vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in lithuania. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, nasdaq omx offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. fixed income tradin g in june 2013, we acquired espeed, an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities, one the of largest and most liquid fixed-income cash markets in the world. through espeed, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals and access to data products and business solutions across the fixed income spectrum. access and broker services access services. we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, drop functionality and connectivity to various market data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. the access services business also includes tradeguard, a leading risk management solution for the financial securities market. as a market leader in risk management, tradeguard provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. in 2013, we launched finqloud, a secure cloud computing platform powered by amazon web services that provides a cost-effective and efficient way to manage and store financial and other data. broker services. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. listing services our listing services segment includes our u.s. and european listing services businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing over $8.0 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2013. 5 table of contents we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. u.s. listings companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2013, a total of 2,637 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,482 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 610 on the nasdaq global market and 545 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2013, the nasdaq stock market attracted 239 new listings. included in these listings were 126 ipos, 5 2 % of u.s. ipos in 2013. the new listings were comprised of the following: total new listings on the nasdaq stock market ................................. 239 switches from nyse/nyse mkt ....................................................... 31 ipos ................................................................................................. 126 upgrades from otc ........................................................................... 39 etfs, structured products and other listings ....................................... 43 in 2013, a total of 31 nyse- or nyse mkt-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing approximately $47 billion in market capitalization, including vimpelcom, marriott international and amdocs limited. in addition, american airlines group, a newly formed company from the merger of amr corporation and us airways group, inc., listed on nasdaq. in march 2013, we formed a joint venture with sharespost, inc., or sharespost, creating, the nasdaq private market, llc, or npm, a marketplace for private growth companies. we own a majority interest in npm, combining nasdaq omx resources, market and operating expertise with sharespost web-based platform. subject to regulatory approvals, npm is expected to launch in the first quarter of 2014. european listings we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2013, a total of 758 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2013, a total of 34 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. information services our information services segment includes our market data products and our index licensing and services businesses. 6 table of contents market data products our market data products business includes our u.s. and european market data products and index data products businesses. u.s. market data products. our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. revenues from u.s. market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 2,000 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx markets. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer totalview enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost level 1 feed, espeed that delivers us treasury data and ultrafeed, a normalized high speed feed of north american equity, options, futures, indexes and mutual fund market data. our u.s. market data products business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor, or sip, for the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are participants in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive securities information processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. european market data products. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, offer european market data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. 7 table of contents significant european market data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview itch, and nordic fixed income level 2. index data products index data products are based on nasdaq omx indexes and consist of our global index data service, which delivers real time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. index licensing and services we are a leading index provider and develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our index licensing and services business. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. at the end of 2013, nasdaq omx indexes were the basis for over 9,000 structured products with almost $1.5 trillion of notional value. nasdaq omx indexes are now the basis for 148 exchange traded products with over $92.0 billion in assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. during 2013, the global index group launched the second phase of the nasdaq global index family, which includes approximately 21,000 indexes. the nasdaq global index family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and 9,000 securities. technology solutions our technology solutions segment includes our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges. we help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their audiences through our suite of advanced technology, analytics and consultative services. our products and services allow clients to attract, inform and influence shareholders, customers, employees, regulators and the media. in 2013, we acquired the thomson reuters corporate solutions businesses which were integrated into our corporate solutions business. we provide corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations . we offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools. our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. corporate communications. we offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. we provide traditional and social media contacts data, backed by over 100 research analysts. our press release distribution, webcasting and media players allow clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. our suite of technology solutions and expert analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. digital media. we offer a range of services to reach internal and external audiences, including webcasting, webinars, media player, and investor relations websites. our global scale provides regional expertise and local language support as well as proprietary distribution channels and access to our network of publishing partners. secure collaboration. we offer a secure collaboration platform for board of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. governance, risk and compliance . we provide enterprise governance, risk and compliance software solutions that harness disparate business processes and content to promote efficiency, transparency and control. market technology powering more than 7 0 marketplaces in 50 countries, we are a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our systems solutions offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. our solutions can 8 table of contents handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. nasdaq omx market technology is utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, icap, bolsa de valores de colombia, the egyptian exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, six swiss exchange, singapore exchanges, tokyo commodity exchange, osaka securities exchange, bursa malaysia and sbi japannext. our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution and advisory services. we also offer broker services through smarts. smarts broker is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. finally, through bwise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth , reliability and regulation of financial markets. in 2012, nasdaq omx established an enterprise-wide operational excellence program. this program continued into 2013 with the development and implementation of several technology policies and programs which continue to strengthen the way we develop, deploy and maintain technology products in the marketplace. the foundation for nasdaq omx core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq omx u.s. and european markets. inet is also a key building block of our market technology offerings, genium inet and x-stream inet. genium inet and x-stream inet both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability , resiliency and market integrity . intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. examples of registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, genium inet, secur, click xt and exigo. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. competition market services derivative trading and clearing. in derivatives trading and clearing, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. 9 table of contents our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, inc., or cboe, the international securities exchange holdings, inc., or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex, bats options, c2 options exchange and the box options exchange group, llc and miax options. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. the intense competition for exchange traded options results in the need to continuously review our technology offerings and pricing. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with eurex group, or eurex, nyse liffe, turquoise and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. the competitive significance in europe of varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the update to markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid ii and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. to this end we have launched nasdaq omx nlx, offering an alternative to current incumbent markets in short -term and long - term european interest rate derivative products . as trading in europe evolves, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. regulations such as mifid ii and the european infrastructure regulation, or emir, are altering competition in the clearing business in europe. the emir requirements are changing the way we structure and operate our clearing business. cash equity trading. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. in late 2013, intercontinentalexchange, or ice, acquired nyse euronext. in addition, bats and direct edge recently completed a merger. these transactions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. we compete in the u.s. against ice, bats global markets, inc., direct edge, regional exchanges and atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. t he u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. in europe, our major competitors include bats chi-x europe, ice, deutsche b rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as turquoise. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business also remain active in europe. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges remains intense. fixed income trading. today, many u.s. fixed-income instruments enjoy some form of electronic trading, but the move to electronify the fixed income space is still developing with some products still trading almost exclusively among voice brokers. expanding the products further in the fixed income space could be faced with competitive forces from the voice broker community or other new electronic platform operators. currently, other competitors in u.s. treasury benchmark trading are icap brokertec platform and dealerweb. while building a u.s. treasury benchmark trading business is complex, time-consuming and expensive, the risk of competition and declining market share in the space is significant. listing services our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse mkt for listing of smaller companies. in addition, now that the bats/direct edge merger has been completed, new competition may arise in listings. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges which are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, nyse euronext, deutsche b rse and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus 10 table of contents markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations. information services market data products. the market data business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the market data business is intensely competitive and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. some of our major competitors for proprietary data products are ice, icap and s&amp;p dow jones . the consolidated market data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse and nyse mkt-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. index licensing and services. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. technology solutions corporate solutions. the landscape of corporate solutions competitors is varied and highly fragmented. in the investor relations space, there are many regional competitors with few global providers. however, other exchanges have recently begun to partner or buy assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside their core listing services. the competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers that span distribution and targeting, monitoring and analytics, and a large number of regional or niche providers. in multimedia and webcasting, competition is highly fragmented and served by a number of firms who address various needs for enterprise buyers and typically offer managed or self-service capabilities . in governance and secure collaboration, the competitive landscape is bifurcated with few competitors who serve corporate boards and deal teams. we believe customers are increasingly looking for single source providers who can address a broad range of needs within a single platform. some of the competitors to the corporate solutions business include ipreo, cision, pr newswire, business wire, on24, boardvantage, diligent, intralinks and merrill datasite. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including ice and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. 11 table of contents this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our sros and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our sros relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our sros to carry out their responsibilities under the securities exchange act of 1934, or exchange act. although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro own rules, impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an sro, the sec must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act. moreover , an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq omx currently operates three cash equities and three options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx bx options pursuant to nasdaq omx bx sro license; and nasdaq omx psx and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to nasdaq omx phlx sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, and/or nasdaq omx bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we also are subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity and most options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company compliance with nasdaq financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on nasdaq to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer on-going compliance with nasdaq continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from 12 table of contents the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx bx options and nasdaq omx phlx. in the first half of 2014, subject to regulatory approvals, nasdaq options services, llc will cease acting as the routing broker for our options exchanges and nasdaq execution services, llc will operate as the routing broker for both our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges, in june 2013, execution access llc, a previously inactive broker-dealer and indirect subsidiary of nasdaq omx, was repurposed and approved by finra to operate as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including espeed electronic trading platform for u.s. treasuries. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, bats-y exchange, bats-z exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, edga exchange, edgx exchange, finra, national stock exchange, nyse, nyse mkt and nyse arca. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx options, bats-z exchange, box, cboe, c2 options exchange, finra, ise, nfa, miami international stock exchange, nyse mkt and nyse arca. execution access llc is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec, finra and 22 states based on business requirements. execution access llc operates a transparent central limit order book known as espeed to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access llc is an introducing broker for trades matched on the espeed trading platform. the trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for nasdaq execution services, nasdaq options services and execution access llc. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, nasdaq options services and execution access llc are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2013, nasdaq execution services, nasdaq options services and execution access llc were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; 13 table of contents joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. nasdaq serves as the sip for the utp plan. as the sip, nasdaq performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the utp plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the exchange act and regulation nms. to fulfill its obligations as the sip, nasdaq has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. cftc regulation. prior to 2014, we also ope rated nasdaq futures exchange , or nqf (formerly nasdaq omx futures exchange), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act and subject to regulatory oversight by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. on january 1, 2014, nqf became a dormant designated contract market under cftc rules and ceased listing futures contracts for trading. nqf has applied to reinstate its designation and, subject to regulatory approval, is anticipated to resume operations in 2014. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or dodd-frank act, also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of some of our subsidiaries outside the united states and their customers. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and european economic area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. at the end of 2012, new regulations relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions were adopted that will affect our clearinghouses in europe. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges and at nasdaq omx oslo asa with respect to the trading of commodities derivatives. there are three surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark. these committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq omx clearing role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. 14 table of contents additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq omx clearing ab holds the license as a ccp. in december 2012, the european commission adopted nine implementing technical standards to complement the obligations defined under emir which became effective in august 2012. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq omx clearing and like other european ccps is currently applying to reauthorize their ccp operations. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma and emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2013, nasdaq omx had 3 , 365 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. of the total employees, 1 , 535 were based in the u.s. and 1,830 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 88 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then under financial information click on sec filings. we use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our market data, index licensing, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and demand for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include ice, lse, deutsche b rse and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. these exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, market data, listings, regulation, index, and technology services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark-pools and internalization engines that may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing or data businesses more competitive than ours. in november 2013, ice completed its acquisition of nyse euronext. ice has also indicated its intent to spin off euronext via an ipo. in early 2014, bats merged with direct edge, creating a holding company with four equity platforms that currently execute roughly the same amount of volume as nasdaq omx three u.s. equity platforms. these transactions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of market data and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. in addition, our listing, index licensing and technology solutions pricing is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand 16 table of contents for our products, including our market data, indexes, corporate solutions and market technology. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small amount of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. market data revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our market data professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for market data or technology products due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a decline in trading and clearing volume will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our market share of trading has declined and may continue to decline. our matched market share in nasdaq-listed securities executed on nasdaq declined from 46.1% in 2007 to 24.5% in 2013, and our combined matched market share in all u.s.-listed securities executed on all of our platforms declined from 29.1% in 2007 to 18.8% in 2013. in addition, as a result of the adoption of mifid, a number of mtfs have launched, thereby significantly increasing competition in europe. as a result, our matched market share in securities listed on our exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic has declined from 100% in 2007 to 68.6% in 2013. if our total market share in these securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trading outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. 17 table of contents while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. in february 2011, we announced that, through our normal security monitoring systems, we detected suspicious files on our u.s. servers. the files were immediately removed and we believe there has been no evidence that any customer information was accessed or acquired by third parties. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain electronic trading platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our electronic trading platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our electronic trading platforms fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our electronic trading platforms to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our technology solution businesses, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may experience losses and liabilities as a result of systems issues that arose during the facebook, inc. ipo. in connection with the ipo by facebook on may 18, 2012, systems issues were experienced at the opening of trading of facebook shares. certain of our members may have been disadvantaged by such systems issues, which have subsequently been remedied. we announced a program for voluntary accommodations to qualifying members, which was approved by the sec in march 2013 , and we paid all valid claims submitted through the program in december 2013 . as a result of the systems issues, we have been sued by retail investors and trading firms in certain putative class actions, many of which have been consolidated into a single action, as well as in five other lawsuits by individual investors. the plaintiffs have asserted claims for negligence, gross negligence, fraud, and violations of section 20(a) of the act and rule 10b-5, promulgated under the act. in addition, a member organization filed a demand for arbitration seeking indemnification for alleged losses associated with the facebook ipo. we believe that these lawsuits and arbitration demand are without merit and intend to defend them vigorously. in addition, as previously disclosed, the sec completed an investigation into the facebook matter. pursuant to our offer of settlement, which the commission accepted, our subsidiaries, the nasdaq stock market llc and nasdaq execution services llc, agreed to implement several measures aimed at preventing future violations of the act and the rules and regulat ions promulgated thereunder. we fully implemented and provided the sec with a certification of our compliance with these undertakings by december 31, 2013 as agreed . in addition, the nasdaq stock market llc paid a $10 million penalty to the united states treasury. while we are unable to predict the outcome of the pending litigation or arbitration, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. pending the resolution of these matters, we expect to incur significant additional expenses in defending the arbitration and lawsuits. our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks is under review. on august 22, 2013, we experienced an outage in the exclusive processor system we maintain and operate on behalf of all exchanges that trade nasdaq stocks which resulted in a market-wide trading halt lasting approximately three hours. following this system outage, the commission and others are evaluating all infrastructure that is critical to the national market system, in cluding the processor systems. we have proposed upgrades that are designed to make those systems more robust and resilient, the cost of such 18 table of contents upgrades to be borne collectively by all exch anges that trade nasdaq stocks. the failure of other exchanges to adopt these upgrades could impact the proper function of the processor and impose further risk on us and the industry. if future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. additionally, the contract for future maintenance and operation of the processor systems will shortly be subject to a competitive bidding process. w e may choose not to bid for the contract or may fail to obtain that contract if we do bid . although we do not expect any material adverse effect on our business if we no longer act as the sip in the future, we could be impacted in ways that we have not foreseen. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. in may 2013, we acquired the tr corporate solutions businesses, and in june 2013, we acquired espeed. in 2013, we also formed npm. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of these and other acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on a deal partner for transition services, including billing services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facilities, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 19 table of contents in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and europe. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future in response to global conditions and events. in the u.s., our markets and broker-dealer subsidiaries are regulated by the sec, finra or cftc and, in the nordics, baltics and uk, our markets are subject to local and/or european union regulation. as a result, our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. in 2013, the sec completed an investigation into the facebook matter and accepted our offer of settlement which included a monetary penalty and an agreement to implement certain measures aimed at preventing future violations of the act and the rules and regulat ions promulgated thereunder . see item 3, legal proceedings. in the future, we could be subject to sec or other regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges or central securities depositories. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, switzerland, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business 20 table of contents activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold interests in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure and technological oversight. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. in 2013, the sec proposed regulation systems, compliance and integrity (regulation sci) which, if adopted as proposed, would update and extend the sec oversight of technology and establish new requirements on u.s. exchanges, atss, plan processors and clearing agencies concerning the design, development, testing, maintenance and surveillance of technology systems that are integral to their operations. also in 2013, the sec implemented a plan for finra and the national securities exchanges to institute a limit up-limit down system designed to reduce short-term volatility in equity trading by preventing trades in individual exchange-listed stocks from occurring outside of a specified price band. in 2012, the sec required national securities exchanges and finra to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (cat) to improve regulators ability to monitor trading activity. we are currently working with finra and the other national securities exchanges in developing a plan to create a consolidated audit trail. at the end of 2012, new regulations relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions were adopted that are affecting our clearinghouses in europe. in addition, the sec has taken regulatory actions in connection with issues described in its 2010 concept release on market structure, as well as the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash. in 2011, the sec implemented a new short sale restriction that triggers when a security declines 10% from its previous close and expanded its existing single stock trading pause to include all regulation nms securities. any potential rules concerning trading halts during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), trading increments and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape and have a material impact on our business. during the coming year, it is likely that there will be additional changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, including further measures taken by government regulators and the sros to address recent incidents involving exchanges, plan processors or market participants that have resulted in disrupted trading or operations, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. the european parliament continues its review of mifid that could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as sro status, short selling, co-location, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, market halts, the market data business, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. in the u.s., the cftc and sec also will continue to take actions to fully implement the dodd-frank act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve market structure, resilience and integrity, the adoption of these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs and obligations on the operation of our u.s. exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary market data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary market data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our market data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain market data products. we have defeated two challenges in federal appeals court but an additional challenge is currently pending at the sec. if the results of that challenge are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges ability to charge for market data, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link market data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the market data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of market data fees could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. 21 table of contents our european exchanges currently offer market data to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. it is expected that the future mifid ii directive will result in a definition of the term reasonable commercial basis . there is a risk that the final wording of this definition may influence the fees for european market data adversely. in addition any future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer market data products in the same manner that we do today thereby causing an adverse effect on our european market data revenues. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for initial public offerings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities, our 5.25% senior notes due 2018, and our 3.875% senior notes due 2021 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets, such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2013, goodwill totaled approximately $6.2 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $2.4 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. 22 table of contents we assess goodwill and intangible assets as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets for impairment by applying a fair value based test by analyzing historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. however, disruptions to our business, such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results, may result in an impairment charge related to our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. in particular, our u.s. business operations are heavily concentrated on the east coast, and our european business operations are heavily concentrated in stockholm. any event that affects either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald &amp; co., or cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2013, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation, or ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and 23 table of contents settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq omx. some of the non-ficc counterparties are required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. although w e believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. in connection with acquisitions and share repurchases, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2013 was approximately $2.6 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $655 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. our credit facilities allow us to pay cash dividends on our common stock as long as certain leverage ratios are maintained. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority , this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although our u.s. cash equities and options exchanges outsource a substantial portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the exchanges 24 table of contents comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key senior officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our senior officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 25 table of contents we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets, that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east, australia and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 table of contents because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona, danish krone, norwegian krone, british pound sterling, australian dollar and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq omx risk committee, which is comprised of employees of nasdaq omx. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, or eps, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and purchases or sales of our common stock, including purchases or sales of our common stock by our directors, officers, significant stockholders or strategic investors. decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. in 2013, our board of directors declared quarterly cash dividend payments of $0.13 per share of outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by 27 table of contents nasdaq omx board of directors. the board determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2013, there were 169,357,084 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to nasdaq omx equity incentive plan, or equity plan. there were 3,153,801 options exercisable as of december 31, 2013 at a weighted average exercise price of $26.59. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 29.0% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone, danish krone and british pound . the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 2013 when compared with the same period in 2012: revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased $221 million, or 13.2%, to $1,895 million in 2013, compared with $1,674 million in 2012, reflecting an operational increase of $206 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to an: increase in corporate solutions revenues of $141 million , reflecting higher revenues resulting from the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions b usinesses in may 2013; increase in fixed income trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $35 million , reflecting the acquisition of espeed; increase in market data products revenues of $22 million, primarily from u.s. market data products; increase in market technology revenues of $20 million, primarily from higher change request and advisory revenues and software as a service revenues ; and increase in index l icensing and services revenues of $11 million , partially offset by a; decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $22 million . operating expenses increased $223 million, or 22.7%, to $1,207 million in 2013, compared with $984 million in 2012, reflecting an operational increase of $214 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 million. the increase in operational expenses was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions b usinesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013 , our voluntary accommodation program , higher merger and strategic initiative expense , and expenses paid with respect to an sec matter , partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges . 37 table of contents interest expense increased $14 million, or 14.4%, to $111 million in 2013, compared with $97 million in 2012, primarily due to the issuance of our 600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior unsecured notes due june 2021, or the 2021 notes , in june 2013. see 3.875% senior unsecured notes, of note 9 , debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gain on sale of investment security of $30 million in 2013 relate d to the sale of our available-for-sale investment securit y in dubai financial market pjsc, or dfm. asset impairment charges in 2013 of $1 4 million relate d to certain acquired intangible assets associate d with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($ 7 million). in 2012, asset impairment charges of $40 million were related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in emcf. loss on divestiture of business in 2012 of $14 million relate d to the sale of international derivatives clearing group, llc, or idcg. see 2012 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. income tax provision increased $1 7 million, or 8 .5%, in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due to the increase in income before income taxes in 2013 compared with 2012. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. excluding our voluntary accommodation program expense , gain on sale of investment security, merger and strategic initiatives expense, expenses paid with respect to an sec matter, asset impairment charges, restructuring charges, loss on divestiture of business and other items that are not reflective of our core business performance, net of taxes, non-gaap consolidated net income attributable to nasdaq omx for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $445 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, compared with $432 million, or $2.50 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2012. see non-gaap financial measures below for further discussion. 2014 outlook for the sixth year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. the economic environment remained stable in 2013, although uncertainty remains throughout the global economy and the debate over future fiscal policy in the u.s. continues. by traditional measures, it was also a difficult year for the exchange business. after reaching an all-time high in 2009, u.s. cash equity trading volume fell for a fourth consecutive year. for the last six years, trading volume in the u.s. and around the world has been driven by volatility associated with the global financial crisis, rather than the prospects for economic growth. while the economic view may be that the worst of the financial crisis has passed, robust economic growth has yet to develop. consequently, nasdaq omx has intentionally structured its organization to account for the highly cyclical nature of our industry. by diversifying our earnings through the sale of corporate solutions, access services, market technology and market data products, and by delivering on cost savings, nasdaq omx has been able to provide stable revenues and operating income during these tough conditions. should 2014 present an equally difficult environment, we believe our organization is positively positioned to compete . we launched several important initiatives during 2013 that we expect to benefit us during the challenging and competitive economic environment anticipated for 2014. in may 2013, we completed our acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses , which provide insight, analytics and communications solutions. these complementary businesses are being integrated into our corporate solutions business, which is part of our technology solutions segment, to create a differentiated client experience through a comprehensive portfolio of technology-driven solutions to more than 10,000 clients worldwide. we continue to leverage the opportunities in our corporate solutions and market technology businesses by offering new products to our expanding customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers . additionally, in june 2013 we acquired the espeed platform, which operates a fully executable central limit order book for electronic trading in benchmark u.s. treasuries, one of the largest and most liquid cash markets in the world, enabling us to enter new markets with a low-cost platform available to both existing and new clients, while creating additional sales opportunities for both our market services and market data products businesses. during 2013, the u.s. ipo market experienced its best year since the 2008 financial crisis. in april 2012, president obama signed into law the jumpstart our business startups act, or jobs act, which is intended to encourage companies to seek access to public capital through an ipo. while the long-term effects of the bill remain to be seen, the overall increase in ipos this year compared to 2011 and 2012 may be a positive sign for 2014. we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the gradual return of global economic growth and the strong broad market returns during 2013 could support a robust ipo market if these trends continue. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital could positively impact the ipo pipeline in 2014 . 38 table of contents during 2014, we expect to confront changes in both the competitive and regulatory environments. in november 2013, ice completed its acquisition of nyse euronext. ice has also indicated its intent to spin off euronext via an ipo. in early 2014, bats merged with direct edge, creating a holding company with four equity platforms that currently execute roughly the same amount of volume as nasdaq omx three u.s. equity platforms. these transactions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. european regulators are currently considering a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. the implementation of emir is changing the way we structure and operate the nordic clearinghouse. we expect the requirements of emir to be finalized in 2014. also, the update to mifid ii is expected to be completed in 2014 with final implementation by 2016. finally, our clients are confronting significant regulatory changes in both the u.s. and europe as regulations resulting from legislation in the aftermath of the financial crisis are implemented. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2014, driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe. these policy changes could result in the continued fragmentation of cash equity markets into additional venues, and trading could continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems, particularly in the u.s. conversely, trading in otc derivatives could begin to move onto exchanges and other execution facilities . any further expansion of the global economy in the year ahead may be positive for our business drivers and our operations. we believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from any improving economic conditions in 2014. we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments since january 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. all prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. prior to january 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. our reportable segments are as follows. market services our market services segment includes our derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income trading, and access and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, cash equities, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide investment firm, clearing, settlement and central depository services. in addition, espeed electronic benchmark u.s. treasury brokerage and co-location service businesses are part of our market services segment. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries , of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. listing services our listing services segment includes our u.s. and european listing services businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing over $ 8. 0 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2013. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. information services our information services segment includes our market data products and our index licensing and services businesses. our market data products business delivers historical and real-time market data to 2.5 million financial professionals and individual investors globally. in addition, espeed market data business is part of our information services segment. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries , of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 39 table of contents our index licensing and services business has been creating innovative and transparent indexes since 1971. as of december 31, 2013, there are over 9,000 structured products based on nasdaq omx indexes, spanning different geographies and asset classes with almost $ 1.5 trillion of notional value. technology solutions our technology solutions segment includes our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to customers, including companies listed on our exchanges. through corporate solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, improve board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. in may 2013, we acquired the tr corporate solutions businesses. see acquisition of the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. with the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses, corporate solutions revenues primarily include subscription and transaction-based income from products in the following key areas: governance, investor relations, multimedia solutions and public relations businesses. our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. our solutions can handle a wide array of assets including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. market technology also provides governance, risk and compliance software solutions. our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as four separate segments. see note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. sources of revenues and cost of revenues market services revenues derivative trading and clearing revenues u.s. derivative trading and clearing u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded on our u.s. options exchanges are equity options, etf options, index options and currency options. in the u.s., we record execution revenues from transactions on a gross basis as revenues and record related expenses as cost of revenues. for u.s. derivative trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our derivative trading and clearing fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on our options exchanges and we recognize these amounts in u.s. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues when incurred. section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec in the consolidated balance sheets until paid. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. as we hold the cash received until payment to the sec, we earn interest income on the related cash balances. european derivative trading and clearing european derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on the volume and value of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded and cleared are stock options and futures, index options and futures, international power derivatives, carbon and other commodity products, and fixed-income options and futures. we also generate clearing revenues for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market, interest rate swaps, and resale and repurchase agreements. these clearing revenues are based on the value and 40 table of contents length of the contract and are recognized when cleared. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities members are billed an annual fee which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. nasdaq omx commodities and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading u.s. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. we charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in nasdaq-listed and other listed securities on our u.s. cash equity exchanges, as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. similar to u.s. derivative trading and clearing, we record cash equity trading revenues from transactions on a gross basis as revenues and record related expenses as cost of revenues, as we have certain risk associated with trade execution. for further discussion see u.s. derivative trading and clearing above. for the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. we record these credits as transaction rebates that are included in cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. as discussed under u.s. derivative trading and clearing , we also pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on our cash equity platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when incurred. european cash equity trading we charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. these transaction fees are charged per executed order and as per value traded. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. fixed income trading revenues we operate espeed, an electronic trading platform for u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury ecurities . customer contracts may be on a fixed or variable rate basis. revenues from customers with a fixed rate basis are recognized ratably over the contract period. revenues from customers with a variable rate basis are based upon individual customer share volume and are recognized as revenues as the transaction occurs. access and broker services revenues access services we generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. the type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. as a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. access services revenues also include revenues from the rtrm solutions we provide to the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, we provide broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. revenues for these services are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers. most contracts include professional services, implementation fees, monthly subscription fees from customers accessing on-demand services, and customer support. implementation fees are recognized upon completion of the implementation. monthly professional services, subscription, and usage fees are recognized in the month the service is provided. broker services 41 table of contents our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic markets. the primary services offered are flexible back-office systems which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. broker services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. listing services revenues u.s. listing services revenues listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. european listing services revenues european listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north, are directly related to the listed companies market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. information services revenues market data products revenues market data products revenues are earned from u.s. and european proprietary market data products and index data products. in the u.s., we also earn revenues from u.s. tape plans. u.s. market data products we collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data and select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. u.s. market data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants. revenues from u.s. tape plans include eligible utp plan revenues that are shared among utp plan participants and are presented on a net basis. under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive securities information processor from the total amount of tape revenues collected. after these costs are deducted from the tape revenues, we distribute to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by regulation nms, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. revenues from net u.s. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis. european market data products european market data products revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for the following classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis. market data products revenue sharing the most significant component of market data products revenues presented on a net basis is the utp plan revenue sharing in the u.s. all indicators of gross vs. net reporting under u.s. gaap have been considered in analyzing the appropriate presentation of utp plan revenue sharing. however, the following are the primary indicators of net reporting: primary obligor: we are the securities information processor for the utp plan, in addition to being a participant in the utp plan. in our unique role as securities information processor, we facilitate the collection and dissemination of revenues on behalf of the utp plan participants. as a participant, we share in the net distribution of revenues according to the plan on the same terms as all other plan participants. risk of loss/credit risk: risk of loss on the revenue is shared equally among plan participants according to the utp plan. 42 table of contents price latitude: the operating committee of the utp plan, which is comprised of representatives from each of the participants, including us solely in our capacity as a utp plan participant, is responsible for setting the level of fees to be paid by distributors and subscribers and taking action in accordance with the provisions of the utp plan, subject to sec approval. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any market data revenue sharing agreements. index data products index data products revenues are generated from our nasdaq omx indexes and consist of global index data services, which deliver real time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recognized on a monthly basis. index licensing and services revenues we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the u.s. and abroad. we also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. if a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. if a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. asset-based licenses are also generally long-term agreements. customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. these revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement. technology solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues primarily include subscription and transaction-based income from our governance, investor relations, multimedia solutions and public relations businesses. subscription-based revenues earned by these businesses are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one to two years in length. as part of the subscription agreements, customers can also be charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. revenues from transaction-based services, such as webcasting and wire distribution, are recorded as the services are provided and delivered. market technology revenues market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement surveillance and information dissemination, as well as governance, risk and compliance solutions. revenues primarily consist of software, license and support revenues, change request and advisory revenues, and software as a service revenues. for most solutions, we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe , of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we also enter into revolving subscription agreements which allow customers to connect to our servers to access certain services. these revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription term. software, license and support software, license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx and are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services, such as facility management. facility management revenues are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered, unless vsoe can be established for each element of the contract. we 43 table of contents record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. software, license and support revenues also include delivery project revenues which are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request and advisory change request and advisory revenues include configuration, customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solutions sold by nasdaq omx after delivery has occurred. change request and advisory revenues are recognized as revenues when earned. software as a service software as a service revenues are derived from subscription based arrangements, where customers pay a fee to access our servers to access certain services. these services include broker compliance solutions targeting brokers throughout the world, as well as governance, risk and compliance services. 44 table of contents nasdaq omx operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, listing services, and technology solutions segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 market services derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options total industry average daily volume (in millions) 14.8 14.7 16.8 nasdaq omx phlx matched market share 18.2% 21.3% 23.1% the nasdaq options market matched market share 8.7% 5.5% 4.6% nasdaq omx bx options market matched market share 1.0% 0.4% - total market share 27.9% 27.2% 27.7% nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily volume: options, futures and fixed-income contracts 408,820 412,841 458,547 finnish option contracts traded on eurex 110,286 85,022 99,394 nasdaq omx commodities power contracts cleared (twh) (1) 1,680 1,703 1,747 cash equity trading nasdaq securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 1.76 1.75 2.02 matched market share executed on nasdaq 24.5% 25.6% 27.7% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.5% 2.7% 2.0% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 0.7% 1.4% 1.1% market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 36.3% 32.3% 30.9% total market share (2) 64.0% 62.0% 61.7% new york stock exchange, or nyse, securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 3.37 3.64 4.34 matched market share executed on nasdaq 11.7% 12.9% 13.4% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.3% 2.6% 2.2% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 0.5% 0.7% 0.7% market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 32.6% 29.8% 27.7% total market share (2) 47.1% 46.0% 44.0% nyse mkt and regional securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 1.06 1.05 1.47 matched market share executed on nasdaq 13.4% 17.0% 18.7% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.9% 2.8% 1.9% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.4% 1.9% 1.8% market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 31.7% 29.3% 25.9% total market share (2) 49.4% 51.0% 48.3% total u.s.-listed securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 6.19 6.44 7.84 matched share volume (in billions) 292.9 334.1 419.6 matched market share executed on nasdaq 15.6% 17.0% 18.1% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.5% 2.7% 2.1% matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 0.7% 1.1% 1.0% total market share 18.8% 20.8% 21.2% nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic securities average daily number of equity trades 309,967 324,322 370,295 total average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 4.3 $ 3.9 $ 5.1 total market share 68.6% 68.7% 73.1% listing services 45 table of contents initial public offerings nasdaq 126 72 78 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 14 6 9 new listings nasdaq (3) 239 158 151 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (4) 34 18 34 number of listed companies nasdaq (5) 2,637 2,577 2,680 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (6) 758 754 776 technology solutions market technology order intake (in millions) (7) $ 322 $ 259 $ 134 total order value (in millions) (8) $ 655 $ 546 $ 458 (1) primarily transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq omx commodities measured by twh and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tco2). (2) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trf. (3) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (4) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north. (5) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (6) represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north at period end. (7) total contract value of orders signed during the period. (8) represents total contract value of signed orders that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue as discussed in note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. segment operating results of our total 2013 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $ 1,895 million , 41.0% was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.3% was from our information services segment and 23.7% was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our market services segment, 13.4% was from our listing services segment, 24.2% was from our information services segment and 17.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,690 million, 47.6% was from our market services segment, 14.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.1% was from our information services segment and 15.3% was from our technology solutions segment. the following table shows our revenues by segment, cost of revenues for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) market services $ 2,092 $ 2,206 $ 2,553 (5.2)% (13.6)% cost of revenues (1,316) (1,446) (1,748) (9.0)% (17.3)% market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 776 760 805 2.1% (5.6)% listing services 228 224 236 1.8% (5.1)% information services 442 406 391 8.9% 3.8% technology solutions 449 284 258 58.1% 10.1% total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,895 $ 1,674 $ 1,690 13.2% (0.9)% 46 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) market services revenues: derivative trading and clearing revenues: u.s. derivative trading and clearing (1) $ 467 $ 458 $ 471 2.0% (2.8)% cost of revenues: transaction rebates (259) (250) (257) 3.6% (2.7)% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (33) (34) (29) (2.9)% 17.2% total u.s. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues (292) (284) (286) 2.8% (0.7)% u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 175 174 185 0.6% (5.9)% european derivative trading and clearing 118 117 128 0.9% (8.6)% total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 293 291 313 0.7% (7.0)% cash equity trading revenues: u.s. cash equity trading (2) 1,129 1,294 1,617 (12.8)% (20.0)% cost of revenues: transaction rebates (743) (854) (1,087) (13.0)% (21.4)% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (279) (308) (375) (9.4)% (17.9)% total u.s. cash equity cost of revenues (1,022) (1,162) (1,462) (12.0)% (20.5)% u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 107 132 155 (18.9)% (14.8)% european cash equity trading 86 80 95 7.5% (15.8)% total cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 193 212 250 (9.0)% (15.2)% fixed income trading revenues: fixed income trading 37 - - # - cost of revenues: brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) - - # - total fixed income trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 35 - - # - access and broker services revenues 255 257 242 (0.8)% 6.2% total market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 776 $ 760 $ 805 2.1% (5.6)% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $27 million in 2013, $32 million in 2012 and $26 million in 2011. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. 47 table of contents (2) includes section 31 fees of $243 million in 2013, $277 million in 2012 and $304 million in 2011. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. market services market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our fixed income trading business which we acquired in june 2013 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million, partially offset by a decline in cash equity trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance, and exchange fees, a decline in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million. partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in access services revenues. u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues both the u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. the increases in 2013 were primarily due to an overall increase in our market share due to the mix of our market share between our three u.s. options exchanges and slightly higher industry trading volumes. the increase in u.s. derivative trading revenues was partially offset by a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. the decreases in 2012 were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in market share on the nasdaq omx phlx market, partially offset by increases in revenue capture per traded contract, increases in market share on the nasdaq options market and the inclusion of the nasdaq omx bx options market, launched in june 2012. section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $27 million in 2013, $32 million in 2012 and $26 million in 2011. the decrease in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to lower pass-through fee rates. the increase in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher pass-through fee rates, partially offset by a decrease in industry trading volumes. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an overall increase in our combined market share and slightly higher industry trading volumes. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in industry trading volumes and a decrease in market share, partially offset by an increase in overall rebate capture rates. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 and increased in 2012 compared with 2011. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to lower section 31 pass-through fees partially offset by an increase in routing costs. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. european derivative trading and clearing revenues the following table shows revenues from european derivative trading and clearing: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) european derivative trading and clearing revenues: options and futures contracts $ 45 $ 44 $ 55 2.3% (20.0)% energy, carbon and other commodity products 51 46 45 10.9% 2.2% fixed-income products 15 22 22 (31.8)% - other revenues and fees 7 5 6 40.0% (16.7)% total european derivative trading and clearing revenues $ 118 $ 117 $ 128 0.9% (8.6)% european derivative t rading and clearing revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher revenues in our energy, carbon and other commodity products primarily due to the acquisition of nos clearing in july 2012 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by lower revenues on our fixed-income products primarily due to the impact of nlx trading incentives . the decrea se in 2012 was primarily due to lower trading activity for index options and futures contracts and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. 48 table of contents u.s. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the decreases were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in our matched market share. the 2012 period also includes income of $11 million from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange. u.s. cash equity trading revenues decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared to 2011. the decreases were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share, and a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenues. similar to u.s. derivative trading and clearing, we record section 31 fees as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $243 million in 2013, $277 million in 2012 and $304 million in 2011. the decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to lower dollar volume traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems and lower pass-through fee rates. the decrease in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems, partially offset by higher pass-through fee rates. for nasdaq and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates decreased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees in 2012 also include income of $11 million from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange. european cash equity trading revenues european cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic exchanges. european cash equity trading revenues increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher average value of shares traded, higher average pricing and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in trading activity and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. fixed income trading revenues fixed income trading revenues less b rokerage, clearance and exchange fees includes transaction fees generated from our espeed electronic benchmark u.s. treasury trading platform that was acquired on june 28, 2013. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries , of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. access and broker services revenues access and broker services revenues decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 and increased in 2012 compared with 2011. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to declines in customer demand for network connectivity services, partially offset by increased revenues from the addition of espeed hosting revenues and new products. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased demand for services and revenues from new products. 49 table of contents listing services the following table shows revenues from our listing services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) listing services revenues: u.s. listing services $ 173 $ 174 $ 181 (0.6)% (3.9)% european listing services 55 50 55 10.0% (9.1)% total listing services revenues $ 228 $ 224 $ 236 1.8% (5.1)% listing services listing services revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was due to an increase in european listing services revenues resulting from higher market capitalization and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2012 was due to decreases in both u.s. listing services and european listing services revenues. the decrease in u.s. listing services revenues was primarily due to a decrease in annual renewal revenues resulting from a decline in the number of listed companies from 2,680 as of december 31, 2011 to 2,577 as of december 31, 2012 . the decrease in european listing services revenues was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million, as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 776 as of december 31, 2011 to 754 as of december 31, 2012. information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) information services revenues: market data product revenues: u.s. market data products $ 264 $ 244 $ 229 8.2% 6.6% european market data products 77 74 80 4.1% (7.5)% index data products 27 25 24 8.0% 4.2% total market data products revenues 368 343 333 7.3% 3.0% index licensing and services revenues 74 63 58 17.5% 8.6% total information services revenues $ 442 $ 406 $ 391 8.9% 3.8% information services information services revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to increases in u.s. market data products and index licensing and services revenues. u.s. market data products revenues u.s. market data products revenues increased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared to 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an increase in audit collections, higher demand for proprietary data products, pricing changes, and an increase in revenues due to the acquisition of espeed which was completed on june 28, 2013. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to higher customer demand for proprietary data products and pricing changes. european market data products revenues european market data products revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million and a decline in user populations. 50 table of contents index data products revenues index data products revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher audit collections . index licensing and services revenues index licensing and services revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to our acquisition of the index business of mergent, inc., including indxis, in december 2012 and an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses, partially offset by lower futures and options volumes. technology solutions the following table shows revenues from our technology solutions segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) technology solutions revenues: corporate solutions revenues: governance $ 15 $ 10 $ 7 50.0% 42.9% investor relations 130 40 35 # 14.3% multimedia solutions 43 14 13 # 7.7% public relations 42 25 20 68.0% 25.0% total corporate solutions revenues 230 89 75 # 18.7% market technology revenues: software, license and support 152 143 139 6.3% 2.9% change request and advisory 38 29 29 31.0% - software as a service 29 23 15 26.1% 53.3% total market technology revenues 219 195 183 12.3% 6.6% total technology solutions revenues $ 449 $ 284 $ 258 58.1% 10.1% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. technology solutions technology solutions revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 due to increases in both corporate solutions revenues and market technology revenues. market technology revenues included a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2013 and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million in 2012. corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses completed on may 31, 2013 and expanding customer utilization of our public relations products. see acquisition of the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to revenues from expanded customer utilization of our public relations products. market technology revenues software, license and support revenues software, license and support revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an operational increase of $4 million , primarily due to bwise, which was acquired in may 2012, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million . the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the recognition of previously deferred delivery project revenues. delivery project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by 51 table of contents nasdaq omx. total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are typically deferred until the customization and any significant modifications are completed and are then recognized over the post contract support period. change request and advisory revenues change request and advisory revenues increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and were flat in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an increase in advisory revenue from bwise , which was acquired in may 2012, and an increase in change requests. software a a ervice revenues software as a service revenues increased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase w ere primarily due to an increase in broker compliance revenues reflecting increased customer demand. the increase in 2013 was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. total order value as of december 31, 2013, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $655 million. market technology deferred revenue, included in the total technology solutions deferred revenue of $ 152 million , represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2014 $ 174 2015 162 2016 117 2017 98 2018 56 2019 and thereafter 48 total $ 655 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 539 $ 454 $ 458 18.7% (0.9)% marketing and advertising 30 26 24 15.4% 8.3% depreciation and amortization 122 104 109 17.3% (4.6)% professional and contract services 151 107 91 41.1% 17.6% computer operations and data communications 82 60 65 36.7% (7.7)% occupancy 98 93 91 5.4% 2.2% regulatory 30 34 35 (11.8)% (2.9)% merger and strategic initiatives 22 4 38 # (89.5)% restructuring charges 9 44 - (79.5)% # general, administrative and other 80 58 83 37.9% (30.1)% voluntary accommodation program 44 - - # - total operating expenses $ 1,207 $ 984 $ 994 22.7% (1.0)% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses increased $223 million in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased $10 million in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 reflects an operational increase of $214 million and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 52 table of contents million. the operational increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, the voluntary accommodation program expense, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, and expenses paid with respect to an sec matter, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges. the decrease in 2012 reflects a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $ 7 million. the operational increase of $7 million in 2012 was primarily due to restructuring actions taken during 2012 and an increase in professional and contract services expense, partially offset by decreases in merger and strategic initiatives expense and general, administrative and other expense. compensation and benefits expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an operational increase of $81 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. the operational increase primarily reflects additional salary expense due to our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013, espeed in june 2013, bwise in may 2012 and nos clearing in july 2012, as well as higher compensation expense reflecting increased financial performance. partially offsetting these increases were lower salary costs due to workforce reductions of 257 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions beginning in the first quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million and lower compensation expense reflecting reduced financial performance and restructuring activities, partially offset by an increase in salary expense, primarily due to our acquisitions of glide technologies in october 2011, bwise in may 2012 and nos clearing in july 2012. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 3,365 employees at december 31, 2013 from 2,506 at december 31, 2012 and increased to 2,506 employees at december 31, 2012 from 2,433 employees at december 31, 2011. the increased headcount in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses and espeed. the increase in headcount in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to our acquisitions of bwise and nos clearing, partially offset by workforce reductions of 226 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions in 2012. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges incurred in 2012. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers and the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased advertising primarily featuring listed issuers. depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets, primarily relating to our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with technology assets placed in service in 2013. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to the write-off of certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), the write-off and disposal of leasehold improvements, asset impairments related to restructuring activities, primarily consisting of fixed assets and capitalized software which have been retired, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by additional depreciation and amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily bwise in may 2012. professional and contract services expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to revenue-related costs incurred as a result of our acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses, costs incurred for special legal expenses, and the launch of new initiatives . the revenue-related costs are primarily due to the production and delivery of webcast events as well as other events and services. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to costs incurred for special legal expenses, as well as incremental spending for professional and contract services, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional expense as a result of our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, as wel l as higher communication line costs. the de crease in 2012 was primarily due to a value added tax, or vat, refund relating to prior periods and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million, partially offset by additional computer operations and data communications expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily glide technologies in october 2011 and bwise in may 2012. occupancy expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional costs related to our acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to additional occupancy expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily bwise in may 2012, as well as a $3 million sublease loss reserve charge on space we currently occupy due to an increase in net rental costs, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $22 million in 2013 compared with $4 million in 2012 and $38 million in 2011. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2013 primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses and espeed, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party 53 table of contents and the remeasurement of a contingent purchase price liability related to the bwise acquisition due to changes in the anticipated performance of bwise. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2012 primarily related to our agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses and costs related to other acquisitions and strategic initiatives, partially offset by a gain on our acquisition of nos clearing in july 2012. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2011 primarily related to costs incurred for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to our acquisition of glide technologies in october 2011. restructuring charges were $9 million in 2013 and $44 million in 2012. our restructuring program was completed in the first quarter of 2013. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2013 and 2012. general, administrative and other expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to expenses paid with respect to an sec matter of $10 million, additional expenses related to the acquisitions of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, the launch of new initiatives, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million . for further discussion of the sec matter, see litigation, of note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a pre-tax charge recorded in 2011 of $25 million related to the write-off of a portion of the unamortized balance of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to the repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2.50% convertible senior notes due august 15, 2013, or the 2013 convertible notes , that was completed in october 2011, and a pre-tax charge of $6 million recorded in 2011 related to the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs related to our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility that was repaid in september 2011. general, administrative and other expense included a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million in 2012. voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million in 2013 relates to the one-time program for voluntary accommodation to qualifying members of up to $62 million, for which a liability was recorded as the program was approved by the sec in march 2013. this program expanded the pool available to compensate members of the nasdaq stock market for qualified losses arising directly from the system issues experienced with the facebook ipo that occurred on may 18, 2012. in october 2013, nasdaq omx announced the completion of initial review by the market regulation department of finra of all claims submitted by qualifying members. thereafter, nasdaq omx informed claimants that finra would be conducting additional analysis with regard to one category of claims. upon the completion of this additional analysis, t he total value of valid submitted claims was determined to be $44 million. nasdaq omx submitted to the sec a filing that provided a report on the administration of the voluntary accommodation program . after the filing became effective, our liability was reduced to $44 million and payment of valid claims totaling $44 million was made in the fourth quarter of 2013. non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) interest income $ 9 $ 10 $ 11 (10.0)% (9.1)% interest expense (111) (97) (119) 14.4% (18.5)% net interest expense (102) (87) (108) 17.2% (19.4)% gain on sale of investment security 30 - - # - asset impairment charges (14) (40) (18) (65.0)% # dividend and investment income - - 1 - # loss on divestiture of business - (14) - # # net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees (2) (1) 2 # # total non-operating expenses $ (88) $ (142) $ (123) (38.0)% 15.4% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total non-operating expenses were $88 million in 2013 compared with $142 million in 2012 and $123 million in 2011. total non-operating expenses for 2013 primarily include net interest expense of $102 million and asset impairment charges of $14 million, partially offset by a gain on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in dfm of $30 million. total non-operating expenses for 2012 primarily include net interest expense of $87 million, asset impairment charges of $40 million and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. total non-operating expenses for 2011 primarily include net interest expense of $108 million and an impairment charge of $18 million on our available-for-sale investment security in dfm . 54 table of contents interest income interest income decreased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. the decreases were primarily due decreases in cash and cash equivalents. interest expense interest expense for 2013 was $111 million, and was comprised of $101 million of interest expense, $3 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to the issuance of the 2021 notes in june 2013. interest expense for 2012 was $97 million, and was comprised of $86 million of interest expense, $4 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2012 primarily resulting from the extinguishment of $335 million of our 2013 convertible notes in the fourth quarter of 2011, as well as lower average interest rates. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. gain on sale of investment security in the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold an available-for-sale investment security for $48 million and recorded a gain on the sale of $30 million, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. asset impairment charges asset impairment charges of $14 million in 2013 relate to non-cash intangible asset impairment charges related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($7 million). see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the second quarter of 2012, we recorded non-cash intangible asset impairment charges totaling $28 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million) and a certain trade name ($3 million). see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the first quarter of 2012, we also recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in emcf. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm . loss on divestiture of businesses in august 2012, we sold idcg and recorded a loss of $14 million. see 2012 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, for further discussion. net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees net loss from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in 2013 and $1 million in 2012 and net income from consolidated investees of $2 million in 2011 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. tax matters nasdaq omx income tax provision was $216 million in 2013 compared with $199 million in 2012 and $190 million in 2011. the overall effective tax rate was 36.0% in 2013, 36.3% in 2012 and 33.2% in 2011 . the lower effective tax rate in 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to a reversal of a valuation allowance associated with our available-for-sale investment security in dfm, a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses, and a reduction in the tax rate in sweden. i n 2013 , we also recorded a lower increase in tax expense associated with deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the impact of changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., compared to the impact recorded in 2012. partially offsetting the decrease in tax expense is the derecognition of a previously recognized tax benefit as a result of new information received in 2013, as well as expenses associated with investments in certain jurisdictions for which we are not able to recognize a tax benefit. the higher effective tax rate i n 2012 when compared to 2011 was primarily due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., adjustments related to our 2005 2011 tax 55 table of contents return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision and a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses. these increases are partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. nasdaq omx and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-u.s. income tax returns. federal income tax returns for the years 2007 through 2010 are currently under audit by the internal revenue service and w e are subject to examination for 2011 and 2012. several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2005 through 2010 and we are subject to examination for 2011 and 2012. non-u.s. tax returns are subject to examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2006 through 2012. we anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2013 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. the final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. we anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. in the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the finnish tax authority challenging certain interest expense deductions claimed by nasdaq omx in finland for the year 2008. the appeal also demanded certain penalties be paid with regard to the company tax return filing position. in october 2012, the finnish appeals board disagreed with the company tax return filing position for years 2009 through 2011, even though the tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the finnish tax authority. nasdaq omx has appealed the ruling by the finnish appeals board to the finnish administrative court. through december 31, 2013, we have recorded tax benefits of $18 million associated with this filing position. of this amount we have paid $12 million to the finnish tax authorities. we have also paid $11 million in interest and penalties. in 2014 we will pay $6 million which represents the benefit taken in 2013. we expect the finnish administrative court to agree with our position and, if so, nasdaq omx will receive a refund of $29 million. from 2009 through 2012, we recorded tax benefits associated with certain interest expense incurred in sweden. our position is supported by a 2011 ruling we received from the swedish supreme administrative court. however, under new legislation effective january 1, 2013, limitations are imposed on certain forms of interest expense. since the new legislation is unclear with regards to our ability to continue to claim such interest deductions, nasdaq omx has filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. we expect to receive a favorable response from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. since january 1, 2013, we have recorded tax benefits of $16 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, related to this matter. we expect to record recurring quarterly tax benefits of $4 million to $5 million with respect to this issue for the foreseeable future. in december 2012, the swedish tax agency approved our 2010 amended value added tax, or vat, tax return and we received a cash refund for the amount claimed. in 2013, we filed vat tax returns for 2011 and 2012 and utilized the same approach which was approved for the 2010 filing. however, even though the vat return position was previously reviewed and approved by the swedish tax agency, we were informed by the swedish tax agency that our vat refund claims for 2011 and 2012 are not valid. however, they will not seek reimbursement of the 2010 refund. we will appeal the finding by the swedish tax agency. through december 31, 2013, we have recorded benefits of $14 million associated with this position. net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $1 million in 2013, $3 million in 2012 and $4 million in 2011. the losses in 2012 and 2011 were primarily attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. these measures are not in 56 table of contents accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to nasdaq omx for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions, other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our normal operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily related to the following: (i) voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million, (ii) gain on sale of investment security of $30 million related to the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in dfm , (iii) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $22 million reflecting $45 million of merger and strategic initiative costs primarily associated with our acquisitions of espeed and the tr corporate solutions businesses, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this credit is offset in item (viii) below, (iv) expenses paid with respect to an sec matter of $10 million - for further discussion of the sec matter, see litigation, of note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements, (v) asset impairment charges of $14 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and a certain trade name, (vi) restructuring charges of $9 million - for further discussion, see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements, (vii) special legal expense of $3 million, (viii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $17 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (ix) significant tax adjustments, net of $8 million due to the derecognition of a previously recognized tax benefit and an increase in net deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions . non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily related to the following: (i) income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange of $11 million, (ii) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $4 million related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, net of gain on acquisition of nos clearing, (iii) loss on divestiture of business of $14 million related to the sale of idcg, (iv) asset impairment charges of $40 million related to certain acquired intangible assets totaling $28 million as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to our equity method interest in emcf of $12 million, (v) restructuring charges of $44 million related to workforce reductions of $23 million, facilities-related charges of $10 million, asset impairment charges of $9 million and $2 million of other charges, (vi) special legal expense of $7 million, (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $32 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (viii) significant tax adjustments, net of $14 million due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., adjustments related to our 2005 2011 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision, partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $38 million, primarily costs for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services, related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, (ii) an asset impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm, (iii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges of $31 million, related to the repayment of the 2013 convertible notes and the repayment of our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility, (iv) an adjustment to the income tax provision of $28 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (v) significant tax adjustments, net of $5 million due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where nasdaq omx operates. 57 table of contents the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 385 $ 2.25 $ 352 $ 2.04 $ 387 $ 2.15 non-gaap adjustments: income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange - - (11) (0.06) - - voluntary accommodation program 44 0.26 - - - - gain on sale of investment security (30) (0.18) merger and strategic initiatives 22 0.13 4 0.02 38 0.21 sec matter 10 0.06 - - - - loss on divestiture of business - - 14 0.08 - - asset impairment charges 14 0.08 40 0.23 18 0.10 restructuring charges 9 0.05 44 0.26 - - special legal expense 3 0.02 7 0.04 - - extinguishment of debt - - - - 31 0.17 other (3) (0.02) - - 4 0.03 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (17) (0.10) (32) (0.19) (28) (0.16) significant tax adjustments, net 8 0.05 14 0.08 5 0.03 total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 60 0.35 80 0.46 68 0.38 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 445 $ 2.60 $ 432 $ 2.50 $ 455 $ 2.53 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 171,266,146 172,587,870 180,011,247 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. liquidity and capital resources while global markets and economic conditions continue to improve from adverse levels experienced during the past several years, investors and lenders remain cautious about the pace of the global economic recovery. this lack of confidence in the prospects for growth could result in sporadic increases in market volatility and lackluster trading volumes, which could in turn affect our ability to obtain additional funding from lenders. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. in june 2013, nasdaq omx issued the 2021 notes. we used the majority of the net proceeds from the offering of the 2021 notes to fund the cash consideration payable by us for the acquisition of espeed and related expenses. we used the remaining proceeds from the 2021 notes for general corporate purposes. as part of the acquisition of espeed, nasdaq omx has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq omx common stock annually approximating certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq omx common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq omx achieves a designated revenue target in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq omx common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. in addition to these cash sources, we have a $750 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our senior unsecured five-year credit facility. in may 2013, we borrowed $50 million under the revolving credit commitment. we used cash on hand and a drawdown from the revolving credit commitment to fund the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses and related expenses. in the third quarter of 2013, we borrowed an additional $70 million under the revolving credit commitment and used the proceeds and cash on hand to pay down our 2013 convertible notes that matured in august 2013. in 2013, we repaid $151 million of the revolving credit commitment. as of december 31, 2013, availability under the revolving credit commitment was $655 million. see 2011 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. for further discussion of our acquisitions of espeed and the tr corporate solutions businesses, see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries, and acquisition of the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements. 58 table of contents in the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $363 million at december 31, 2013, compared with $474 million at december 31, 2012, a decrease of $111 million primarily due to a decline in cash and cash equivalents and financial investments at fair value. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. in connection with an increase in indebtedness to finance the acquisition of espeed, s&amp;p affirmed the credit rating of nasdaq omx at bbb and nasdaq omx clearing ab at a+ and placed both nasdaq omx and nasdaq omx clearing ab on negative outlook. moody affirmed the credit rating of nasdaq omx at baa3. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 425 $ 497 restricted cash 84 85 non-current restricted cash - 25 financial investments, at fair value 162 223 total financial assets $ 671 $ 830 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents of $425 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2013 decreased $72 million from december 31, 2012 primarily due to net cash used in investing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities and financing activities. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. current restricted cash, which was $84 million as of december 31, 2013 and $85 million as of december 31, 2012, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at nasdaq omx stockholm and nos clearing. non-current restricted cash of $25 million at december 31, 2012 was segregated for nasdaq omx commodities clearing company, or nocc, to improve its liquidity position and was not available for general use. as a result of a strategic alliance with natural gas exchange inc., or ngx , this cash wa no longer needed for liquidity purposes and was released from nocc . see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $186 million as of december 31, 2013 and $198 million as of december 31, 2012. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $239 million as of december 31, 2013 and $299 million as of december 31, 2012. 59 table of contents unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. these purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by our management. the purchases are funded from existing cash balances. the share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time. in april 2013, we announced that the share repurchase program is temporarily suspended. during 2013, we repurchased 321,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $31.12, for an aggregate purchase price of $10 million. the shares repurchased under the share repurchase program are available for general corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2013, the remaining amount for share repurchases under the program authorized in the third quarter of 2012 was $215 million. cash dividends on common stock in 2013, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. in january 2014, the board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. the dividend is payable on march 28, 2014 to shareholders of record at the close of business on march 14 , 2014. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the board of directors. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $162 million as of december 31, 2013 and $223 million as of december 31, 2012 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly swedish government debt securities. of these securities, $1 40 m illion as of december 31, 2013 and $134 million as of december 31, 2012 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for clearing operations at nasdaq omx nordic clearing. at december 31, 2012 this balance also included our available-for-sale investment security in dfm valued at $22 million. in the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold this investment security and recognized a gain on the sale of $30 million, which is included in gain on sale of investment security in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2013 . the $30 million gain represents cash proceeds received of $48 million less the adjusted cost basis of $18 million. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading securities and available-for-sale investment security. debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 (in millions) 2.50% convertible senior notes repaid august 2013 $ - $ 91 4.00% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2015 400 399 $1.2 billion senior unsecured five-year credit facility: $450 million senior unsecured term loan facility september 2016 349 394 $750 million revolving credit commitment september 2016 95 126 5.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2018 368 368 5.55% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2020 598 598 3.875% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) june 2021 824 - total debt obligations 2,634 1,976 less current portion (45) (136) total long-term debt obligations $ 2,589 $ 1,840 60 table of contents in addition to the $750 million revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. at december 31, 2013, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), of which $11 million was utilized. at december 31, 2012, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2013, our required regulatory capital consisted of $94 million of swedish government debt securities, that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets and $68 million of cash that is included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, we have available credit facilities of $93 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. see debt obligations above for further discussion. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services , nasdaq options services and execution access , are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2013, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $ 0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $15 .7 million, or $15 .4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2013, nasdaq options services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $3 .5 million, or $3 .2 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2013, execution access was required to maintain minimum net capital of $ 0.8 million and had total net capital of $43 .2 million, or $42 .4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. other capital requirements nasdaq options services also is required to maintain a $ 2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with the options clearing corporation, or occ. cash flow analysis the following tables summarize the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 percentage change (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 574 $ 594 (3.4)% investing activities (1,189) (128) # financing activities 547 (485) # effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (4) 10 # net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (72) (9) # cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 497 506 (1.8)% cash and cash equivalents at the end of period $ 425 $ 497 (14.5)% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. net cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2013: net income of $384 million, plus: 61 table of contents items to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities of $177 million comprised primarily of $122 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $47 million of share-based compensation expense, deferred income taxes of $28 million and $14 million of asset retirements and impairment charges, partially offset by gain on sale of investment security of $30 million and excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $16 million. increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $51 million primarily due to recent acquisitions, the timing of payments and an increase in interest payable related to our debt obligations. increase in accrued personnel costs of $39 million primarily due to our 2013 incentive compensation accrual and an increase in employee headcount, partially offset by the payment of our 2012 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2013. partially offset by a: increase in accounts receivable, net of $55 million primarily due to recent acquisitions and the timing of collections and activity. decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $15 million primarily due to a decrease in section 31 fee rates. the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2012: net income of $349 million, plus: items to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities of $251 million comprised primarily of $104 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $46 million of share-based compensation expense, $40 million related to asset retirements and impairment charges, $16 million of restructuring charges, deferred income taxes of $16 million, and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. decrease in other assets of $71 million primarily due to the release of restricted cash resulting from the sale of idcg. partially offset by a: increase in receivables, net of $30 million primarily due to an increase in receivables across multiple businesses relating to timing of collections and activity, partially offset by a decrease in income tax receivables. decrease in accrued personnel costs of $27 million primarily due to the payment of our 2011 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by the 2012 accrual. decrease in other liabilities of $17 million primarily reflecting the release of escrow amounts related to certain acquisitions and the utilization of sublease reserve balances. decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $9 million primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems, partially offset by higher section 31 fee rates in 2012. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily consisted of cash utilized to fund the acquisitions of espeed and the tr corporate solutions businesses, purchases of trading securities, purchases of property and equipment, and cash paid for equity and cost method investments, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities and proceeds from the sale of our available-for-sale investment security. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. net cash provided by (used in) financing activities net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily consisted of proceeds of $ 895 million received from the issuance of the 2021 notes and a partial utilization under our revolving credit commitment, partially offset by payments of debt obligation totaling $289 million consisting of repayment of our 2013 convertible notes totaling $93 million, repayment of $151 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million made on our $450 million funded term loan, or the 2016 term loan, and $87 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily consisted of $275 million of cash used in connection with our share repurchase programs, repayment of debt obligations of $145 million consisting of an optional prepayment of $100 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million on the 2016 term loan, and $65 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. for further discussion of our acquisitions, see note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our debt obligations, see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further 62 table of contents discussion of our share repurchase program, see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq omx has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2013: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 3,239 $ 152 $ 986 $ 530 $ 1,571 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 450 78 149 84 139 other obligations (3) 33 18 15 - - total $ 3,722 $ 248 $ 1,150 $ 614 $ 1,710 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2013, an interest rate of 1.54% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2016 term loan and an interest rate of 1.34% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our revolving credit commitment. all other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2013. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) in connection with our acquisitions of ften, glide technologies and the index business of mergent, inc., including indxis, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and to ensure other closing conditions. at december 31, 2013, these agreements provide for future payments of $12 million and are included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, other obligations include future transition service agreement payments associated with the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses and estimated amounts related to the purchase of the remaining 28% ownership interest in bwise. off-balance sheet arrangements default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations default fund contributions clearing members eligible contributions may include cash and non-cash contributions. cash contributions are invested by nasdaq omx nordic clearing in accordance with its investment policies and are included in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets. however, non-cash contributions, which include highly rated government debt securities that must meet the investment policies of nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing, as well as pledged cash, are pledged assets that are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing do not take legal ownership of these assets and the risks and rewards remain with the clearing members. these pledged assets are held at a nominee account in nasdaq omx nordic clearing name or nos clearing name for the benefit of the clearing members and are immediately accessible by nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing in the event of default. the pledged asset balances may fluctuate over time due to changes in the amount of deposits required and whether members choose to provide cash or non-cash contributions. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our clearing operations and default fund contributions. margin deposits received for clearing operations nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing each require all clearing members to provide collateral, which may consist of cash and eligible securities, in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee, to guarantee performance on the clearing members open positions, or initial margin. in addition, clearing members must also provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial margin. pledged collateral is maintained at a third-party custodian bank or deposit bank account for the benefit of the clearing members and is immediately accessible by nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing in the event of default. the pledged margin deposits are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as all risks and rewards of 63 table of contents collateral ownership, including interest, belong to the counterparty. clearing member pledged collateral related to our clearing operations was $9.5 billion as of december 31, 2013 and $6.7 billion as of december 31, 2012. in april 2013, nasdaq omx nordic clearing implemented a new collateral management process. with the implementation of this collateral management process, nasdaq omx nordic clearing now maintains and manages all cash deposits related to margin collateral and records these cash deposits in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets as both a current asset and current liability. the collateral procedures related to eligible pledged assets remain the same. nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing mark-to-market all outstanding contracts at least daily, requiring payment from clearing members whose positions have lost value and making payments to clearing members whose positions have gained value. the mark-to-market process helps identify any clearing members that may not be able to satisfy their financial obligations in a timely manner which helps nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing manage the risk of a clearing member defaulting due to exceptionally large losses. in the event of a default, nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing can access these margin deposits to cover the defaulting member losses. u.s. clearing in the third quarter of 2013, nocc entered into a strategic alliance with ngx. together ngx and nocc provide a solution for transacting in physical energy in the u.s. ngx offers trading and clearing services for the alliance and nocc contributes account management, product development, and scheduling resources. since ngx is now the counterparty to all transactions and clearing arrangements, nocc transferred all positions to ngx, returned collateral to customers, terminated its letters of credit from banks, and cancelled all contracts with customers. prior to the alliance with ngx, nocc, through riskless principal trading and clearing, was the legal counterparty for each customer position traded and nocc thereby guaranteed the fulfillment of each of its customer transactions. market participants at nocc were required to meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk that they became unable to satisfy their obligations and provided collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed. customer pledged cash collateral held by nocc, which was $33 million at december 31, 2012, was included in default funds and margin deposits as both a current asset and current liability in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belonged to nocc. guarantees issued and credit facilities available in addition to the collateral pledged by clearing members discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. financial guarantees issued to us totaled $20 million at december 31, 2013 and $7 million at december 31, 2012. at december 31, 2013, credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), $11 million of which was utilized. at december 31, 2012, these facilities totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2013, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq omx. some of the non-ficc counterparties are required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. leases we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. other guarantees we have provided other guarantees of $16 million as of december 31, 2013 and $18 million at december 31, 2012. these guarantees primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. in addition, for certain market technology contracts, we have provided performance guarantees of $2 million as of december 31, 2013 and $5 million at december 31, 2012 related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. 64 table of contents we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for the above guarantees. in connection with the launch of nasdaq omx nlx , we have entered into agreements with certain members which may require us to make payments if certain financial goals are achieved. since these payments are not currently probable and the amount cannot be quantified as of december 31, 2013, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these payments. routing brokerage activities our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to a clearinghouse or exchange, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. to mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral, as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. however, we believe that the potential for nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the following table summarizes our financial assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk as of december 31, 2013: financial assets financial liabilities (1) negative impact of a 100bp adverse shift in interest rate (2) (in millions) floating rate positions (3) $ 2,592 $ 2,405 $ 3 fixed rate positions (4) 40 2,195 - (1) represents total contractual debt obligations and amounts related to default fund contributions and margin deposits. (2) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (3) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (4) financial assets primarily consist of swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.3 years. we are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate financial assets of $2,592 million and financial liabilities of $2,405 million at december 31, 2013. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2013 positions, each 1.0% adverse change in interest rate would impact annual pre-tax income by $3 million related to our floating rate positions. we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial assets, which totaled $40 million at december 31, 2013 and have an average duration of 1.3 years. the net effect of a parallel shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would have an immaterial impact on annual pre-tax income related to our fixed rate positions. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk. for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 29.0% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone, danish krone and british pound. for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, 65 table of contents clearance and exchange fees and 26.5% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone british pound other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) twelve months ended december 31, 2013 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 0.1536 1.3285 0.1703 0.1781 1.5647 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 20.1% 4.3% 2.7% 2.5% 1.7% 3.5% percentage of operating income 19.9% 3.7% 4.3% 4.6% (2.6)% (0.9)% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (38) $ (8) $ (5) $ (5) $ (3) $ (7) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14) $ (2) $ (3) $ (3) $ (2) $ (1) swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies twelve months ended december 31, 2012 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 0.1478 1.2864 0.1720 0.1728 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 21.8% 4.0% 2.8% 2.5% 3.7% percentage of operating income 20.2% 4.2% 3.3% 3.6% (4.8)% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (36) $ (7) $ (5) $ (4) $ (6) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14) $ (3) $ (2) $ (8) $ (9) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2013 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 4,272 $ (427) norwegian krone 297 (30) british pound (1) 171 (17) euro 160 (16) australian dollar 98 (10) (1) includes goodwill of $3,510 million and intangible assets, net of $1,063 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk 66 table of contents associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from risk. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. for these trades, novation is done at the end of the trading day, and settlement is complete by 10:00 am on the following day. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc and occ rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc and occ. historically, neither nasdaq execution services nor nasdaq options services has incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2013, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq omx. some of the non-ficc counterparties will be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing. see default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above, as well as note 16, clearing operations for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. the following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. management estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. for a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. revenue recognition listing services revenues u.s. listing services 67 table of contents listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. technology solutions revenues market technology revenues revenues primarily consist of software, license and support revenues, change request and advisory revenues, and software as a service revenues . for most solutions, w e enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vsoe of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we also enter into revolving subscription agreements which allow customers to connect to our servers to access certain services. these revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription term. software, l icense and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services , such as f acility management . facility management revenues are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered , unless vsoe can be established for each element of the contract. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. oftware, license and support revenues also include d elivery project revenues which are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request and advisory revenues and software as a service revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized as revenue when earned. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our six reporting units are the market services segment, the listing services segment, the two businesses comprising the information services segment: market data products and index licensing and services, and the two businesses comprising the technology solutions segment: corporate solutions and market technology. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2013 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in financial accounting standards board, or fasb, accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. 68 table of contents in conducting the qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, and other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. first, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. for our annual test of goodwill impairment in 2013, we considered the results of our quantitative test performed in january 2013, due to the realignment of our reportable segments, which indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying amount. we also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units. at the time of our 2013 annual impairment test, our goodwill balance was $ 6 ,191 m illion, of which $ 3,439 m illion was attributable to our market services segment, $ 137 m illion was attributable to our listing services segment , $ 2,021 m illion was attributable to our information services segment and $ 594 m illion was attributable to our technology solutions segment. we utilized the qualitative screen for our l isting ervices , market data products, index licensing and services and m arket t echnology reporting units , as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment for these four reporting units, we evaluated future financial projections by management to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in asc topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our l isting ervices , market data products, index licensing and services and m arket t echnology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended december 31, 2013. due to declining cash equity trading volumes and the purchase of espeed in june 2013 , we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the market services reporting unit. in addition, due to the acquisition of the tr corporate solutions businesses in may 2013, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the corporate solutions reporting unit . we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for both of these reporting units and determined that the fair value of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit exceeded their carrying amount . as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. the fair value of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. the market approach estimates fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the market services and corporate solutions reporting unit operating performance. the multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit . the market approach requires management judgment to determine several valuation inputs, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. the control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. we determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management estimate of the long-term growth of the business. we then discounted the projected cash flows using a weighted average cost of capital of 11.1% for market services and 11.7% for corporate solutions . the fair value of our market services reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. holding all other assumptions constant at the testing date, a 5% decrease in the estimated free cash flows of this reporting unit would not reduce the estimated fair value below the carrying amount. however, holding all other assumptions constant, a 3 5 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the testing of this reporting unit would reduce the estimated fair value below its carrying amount by 1%, indicating a possible impairment. because step two of the impairment test was not required for this reporting unit, it is not possible at this time to determine if a decrease in our valuation inputs would result in an impairment charge, or if such a charge would be material. 69 table of contents the fair value of our corporate solutions reporting unit also exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. holding all other assumptions constant at the testing date, a 5% decrease in the estimated free cash flows of this reporting unit would not reduce the estimated fair value below the carrying amount. however, holding all other assumptions constant, a 20 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the testing of this reporting unit would reduce the estimated fair value below its carrying amount by 1 %, indicating a possible impairment. because step two of the impairment test was not required for this reporting unit, it is not possible at this time to determine if a decrease in our valuation inputs would result in an impairment charge, or if such a charge would be material. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecast of cash flows generated by our market services and corporate solutions reporting units or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the market services and corporate solutions reporting units would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of an impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 201 3 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 2 5 years customer relationships: 9 30 years other: 2 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. 70 table of contents the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, and note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. pension and post-retirement benefits pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. we assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. in evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. see note 11, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. actuarial assumptions are based upon management best estimates and judgment. the expected rate of return on plan assets for our u.s. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. the long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. while we consider the pension plans recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return. share-based compensation the accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance share units, or psus. restricted stock awards generally refer to restricted stock units. we estimate the fair value of psus granted under our total shareholder return, or tsr, program using the monte carlo simulation model, as these awards contain a market condition. assumptions used in the monte carlo simulation model include the weighted average risk-free rate and the expected volatility. the risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant . we use historic volatility for psu awards issued under the tsr program, as implied volatility data could not be obtained for all the companies in the peer groups used for relative performance measurement within the tsr program. see note 12, share-based compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 71 table of contents software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. we capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software. under our technology solutions segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. foreign currency translation foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate. deferred taxes are not provided on cumulative translation adjustments where we expect earnings of a foreign subsidiary to be indefinitely reinvested. the income tax effect of currency translation adjustments related to foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely reinvested is recorded as a component of deferred taxes with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. recently adopted and issued accounting pronouncements f or the year ended december 31, 2013, we ha ve not adopted any new account ing pronouncements that ha d a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in addition, we have reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and do not believe the future adoption of any such pronouncements will have a material impact on our financial position or results of its operations. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 2013 2013 2013 2013 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 744 $ 814 $ 805 $ 849 cost of revenues (326) (363) (299) (329) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 418 451 506 520 total operating expenses 328 292 304 282 operating income 90 159 202 238 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 42 $ 88 $ 113 $ 141 basic earnings per share $ 0.26 $ 0.53 $ 0.68 $ 0.84 diluted earnings per share $ 0.25 $ 0.52 $ 0.66 $ 0.81 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 72 table of contents 2012 2012 2012 2012 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 804 $ 815 $ 746 $ 755 cost of revenues (390) (388) (334) (333) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 414 427 412 422 total operating expenses 243 252 242 247 operating income 171 175 170 175 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 85 $ 93 $ 89 $ 85 basic earnings per share $ 0.49 $ 0.55 $ 0.53 $ 0.52 diluted earnings per share $ 0.48 $ 0.53 $ 0.52 $ 0.50 cash dividends declared per common share $ - $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 14 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. iii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2015 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including strategic, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity; and any litigation and/or government investigation or action to which we are or could become a party. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading and clearing volume, market share, listed companies or other customers; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address security risks; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; " our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, access services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, most of our businesses are operated by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. also in 2008, we expanded our business through the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc. and the boston stock exchange, incorporated. these acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the u.s. derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate u.s. options markets. in addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional u.s. cash equity markets. we also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. in 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of nord pool asa, or nord pool. as a result of this acquisition, we launched nasdaq commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of nord pool. in july 2012, we acquired nos clearing asa, or nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for over-the-counter, or otc, traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. in august 2010, we acquired smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. in two separate transactions in 2012 and 2014, we acquired 100% ownership interest in bwise beheer b.v. and its subsidiaries, or bwise, a netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. these acquisitions have expanded our market technology business. in recent years, we have significantly grown our corporate solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. most recently, in 2013, we acquired the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, or the tr corporate businesses. in 2013, we further expanded our market services and information services businesses by acquiring from bgc partners, inc. and certain of its affiliates, or bgc, certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the espeed business, or espeed, including the espeed brand name and various assets comprising the fully electronic portion of bgc benchmark u.s. treasury brokerage, data and co-location service businesses. on january 30, 2015 , w e completed the acquisition of dorsey, wright &amp; associates, llc, or dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. dwa is part of our information services business. products and services since january 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. prior to january 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our 2 table of contents products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. all prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. of our 2014 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,067 million, 39.4% was from our market services segment, 11.5% was from our listing services segment, 22.9% was from our information services segment and 26.2% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2013 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 41.0% was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.0% was from our information services segment and 24.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2012 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our market services segment, 13.4% was from our listing services segment, 23.9% was from our information services segment and 17.3% was from our technology solutions segment. see note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing, and access and broker services businesses. we operate multiple exchanges and other marketplace facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide broker services, clearing, settlement and central depository services. our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions, providing fee-based revenues. equity derivative trading and clearing in the u.s., we operate three options exchanges, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx options, for the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. during the year ended december 31, 2014, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 26.9% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 16. 0 % at nasdaq phlx, 10.0% at the nasdaq options market and 0. 9 % at nasdaq bx options. together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the u.s. equity and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq stockholm offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq nordic clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the central counterparty, or ccp. nasdaq nordic clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges, the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 17.1% of all u.s. cash equity volume for 2014. in 2014, nasdaq bx matched an average of approximately 2.5 % and nasdaq psx matched an average of approximately 0.6% of all u.s. cash equity volume. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. in europe, nasdaq nordic operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the nordic exchanges offer trading in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and etfs. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. nasdaq baltic operates exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). nasdaq owns nasdaq tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq vilnius and nasdaq riga. in addition, nasdaq tallinn owns the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq riga owns the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq helsinki and nasdaq vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in lithuania. we also operate nasdaq armenia. fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing fixed income and currency trading and clearing. our fixed income and currency trading and clearing business includes fixed income activities in the nordic region, our espeed business and nasdaq nlx. 3 table of contents nasdaq nordic provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland and iceland. nasdaq stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 3,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq derivatives markets for ccp clearing. the nasdaq derivatives markets act as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. in june 2013, we acquired espeed, an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities, one the of largest and most liquid fixed-income cash markets in the world. through espeed, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. nasdaq nlx is a london-based multilateral trading venue that launched in 2013. nasdaq nlx offers a range of both short-term interest rate and long-term interest rate euro-and sterling-based listed derivative products. commodities trading and clearing . nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. the nasdaq commodities offerings include power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, fuel oil, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. nasdaq omx oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for nasdaq commodities. in addition, all trades with nasdaq commodities are subject to clearing with nasdaq nordic clearing, which is authorized to conduct clearing operations in norway by the norwegian ministry of finance. nasdaq commodities has over 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. access and broker services access services. we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, drop functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. broker services. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication to deposit banks. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. 4 table of contents companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2014, a total of 2,782 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,549 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 627 on the nasdaq global market and 606 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2014, the nasdaq stock market attracted 32 7 new listings. included in these listings were 189 ipos, 61% of u.s. ipos in 2014. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange, or nyse, and nyse mkt . 17 ipos ................................................................................................. 189 upgrades from otc ........................................................................... 58 etfs, structured products and other listings ....................................... 63 ....................................................................................... total 327 in 2014, a total of 17 nyse- or nyse mkt-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing approximately $ 5 billion in market capitalization, including office dep ot . in addition, walgreens, which was previously dually listed on nyse and the nasdaq stock market, delisted from the nyse, bringing its approximately $52 billion in market capitalization exclusively to nasdaq. finally, i n january 201 5 , advanced micro devices, representing approximately $ 2 billion in market capitalization, switch ed its listing to the nasdaq stock market. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2014, a total of 792 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2014, a total of 72 new companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our listing services business also includes the nasdaq private market, llc, or npm, a marketplace for private growth companies. we own a majority interest in npm, which is a joint venture with sharespost, inc., or sharespost, combining nasdaq resources, market and operating expertise with sharespost web-based platform. npm launched in march 2014. information services our information services segment includes our data products and our index licensing and services businesses. data products our data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. revenues from data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx markets. 5 table of contents we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost level 1 feed and ultrafeed, a normalized high speed feed of north american equity, options, futures, indexes and mutual fund data. in addition, espeed delivers u.s. treasury data. our data products business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market acts as the administrator for the joint self-regulatory organization plan governing the collection, consolidation, and dissemination of quotation and transaction information for nasdaq-listed securities traded on exchanges on an unlisted trading privileges basis, or the utp plan. in this role, nasdaq sells quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real- time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview itch, and nordic fixed income level 2. finally, we provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. index licensing and services our index licensing and services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. we also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. nasdaq indexes are now the basis for 166 exchange traded products with over $99 billion in assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. we also operate the nasdaq global index family, which includes approximately 39,000 indexes. the nasdaq global index family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and 9,000 securities. on january 30, 2015 , w e completed the acquisition of dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. dwa adds to nasdaq robust index portfolio, bringing model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and further strengthens nasdaq position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. technology solutions our technology solutions segment includes our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges. we help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. in 2013, we acquired the tr corporate businesses which were integrated into our corporate solutions business. 6 table of contents we provide corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations . we offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools. our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. public relations. we offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. we provide traditional and social media contacts data, backed by over 100 research analysts. our press release distribution, webcasting and media players allow clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. our suite of technology solutions and expert analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. multimedia solutions. we offer a range of services to reach internal and external audiences, including webcasting, webinars, media player, and investor relations websites. our global scale provides regional expertise and local language support as well as proprietary distribution channels and access to our network of publishing partners. governance. we offer a secure collaboration platform for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. we also provide enterprise governance, risk and compliance software solutions that harness disparate business processes and content to promote efficiency, transparency and control. we currently have approximately 10,000 corporate solutions clients. market technology powering more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. our market technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to emerging markets in the middle east, latin american and africa. our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. our trading and data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. nasdaq market technology is utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, icap, bolsa de valores de colombia, the egyptian exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, six swiss exchange, singapore exchanges, tokyo commodity exchange, japan exchange group, bursa malaysia and sbi japannext. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services. we also offer broker services through smarts. smarts broker is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. finally, through bwise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. in 2014, nasdaq established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems. this program is focused on identifying areas for improvement in systems and implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. the foundation for nasdaq core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq u.s. and european markets. inet is also a key building block of our market technology offerings, genium inet and x-stream inet. genium inet and x-stream inet both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability, resiliency and market integrity . 7 table of contents intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. competition market services equity derivative trading and clearing. in derivatives trading and clearing, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, inc., or cboe, the international securities exchange holdings, inc., or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex, bats options, miax options, c2 options exchange, the box options exchange group, llc and ise gemini. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing and speed of execution. the intense competition for exchange traded options results in the need to continuously review our technology offerings and pricing. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our primary competitors for options on european equities are eurex group, or eurex, ice futures europe, turquoise and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. the competitive significance in europe of varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the update to markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid ii, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. as trading in europe evolves, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. regulations such as mifid ii, the markets in financial instruments regulation, or mifir , and the european infrastructure regulation, or emir, are altering competition in the clearing business in europe. mifid ii and mifir both will affect our trading business as they are implemented over the next several years. the emir requirements are changing the way we structure and operate our clearing business today as implementation is ongoing and will continue into 2015. cash equity trading. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. in late 2013, intercontinentalexchange, or ice, acquired nyse euronext, followed by a spin-off of euronext in 2014 via an ipo. in addition, bats and direct edge completed their merger in 2014. during 2014, both combined companies focused on their integration activities. in late 2014, iex applied to register as a national securities exchange and announced its intention to operate quite differently from the manner in which existing exchanges compete. these actions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. we compete in the u.s. against ice, bats global markets, inc., regional exchanges and atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, interconnections with other systems, and volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. 8 table of contents in europe, our major competitors include bats chi-x europe, euronext, deutsche b rse ag, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as turquoise. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid ii. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business also remain active in europe. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges remains intense. fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing. today, many u.s. fixed-income instruments enjoy some form of electronic trading, but the move to electronify the fixed income space is still developing with some products still trading almost exclusively among voice brokers. expanding the products further in the fixed income space could face competitive forces from the voice broker community or other new electronic platform operators. currently, other competitors in u.s. treasury benchmark trading are icap brokertec platform and dealerweb. while building a u.s. treasury benchmark trading business is complex, time-consuming and expensive, the risk of competition and declining market share in the space is significant. listing services our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse mkt for listing of smaller companies. in addition, now that the bats/direct edge merger has been completed, new competition may arise in listings. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and international markets for listings by both u.s. and foreign companies that choose to list outside of their home country. for example, we compete for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the hong kong stock exchange. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, euronext, deutsche b rse and the nasdaq nordic exchanges. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, icap securities &amp; derivatives exchange, otc markets group and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations. information services data products. the data business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. some of our major competitors for proprietary data products are ice, bats, icap and s&amp;p dow jones. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse and nyse mkt-listed securities for those respective tape plans. in recent years, the operations of the consolidated tape plans have received heightened scrutiny from the industry, regulators and policy makers, including calls for competing tape plans. index licensing and services. our index licensing and services business faces competition from indexes created by a large number of providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. technology solutions corporate solutions. the landscape of corporate solutions competitors is varied and highly fragmented. in the investor relations sector, there are many regional competitors with few global providers. however, other exchanges have recently begun to partner or buy assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside their core listing services. the competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers that span distribution and 9 table of contents targeting, monitoring and analytics, and a large number of regional or niche providers. in multimedia and webcasting, competition is highly fragmented and served by a number of firms who address various needs for enterprise buyers and typically offer managed or self-service capabilities. in governance and secure collaboration, the competitive landscape is bifurcated with few competitors who serve corporate boards and deal teams. we believe customers are increasingly looking for single source providers who can address a broad range of needs within a single platform. some of the competitors to the corporate solutions business include ipreo, cision, pr newswire, business wire, on24, boardvantage, diligent, intralinks and merrill datasite. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including ice and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. in the market for governance, risk and compliance solutions, there is a wide range of providers addressing the market. often, solutions are part of larger suites, such as those related to it management or general business management. the market needs are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment a necessity to stay relevant. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our sros and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our sros relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our sros to carry out their responsibilities under the securities exchange act of 1934, or exchange act. although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro own rules, impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an sro, the sec must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act. moreover , an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and three options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx sro license; and nasdaq psx and the nasdaq phlx options market pursuant to nasdaq phlx sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx, and/or nasdaq bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we also are subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections 10 table of contents result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company compliance with nasdaq financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on nasdaq to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer on-going compliance with nasdaq continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc, or nasdaq execution services, currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq u.s. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. in june 2013, execution access llc, or execution access, a previously inactive broker-dealer and indirect subsidiary of nasdaq, was repurposed and approved by finra to operate as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including espeed electronic trading platform for u.s. treasuries. npm securities, llc, or npm securities, operates an ats involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under section 12 of the exchange act), including acting as the buyer and seller agent to facilitate private placement transactions on the ats. finally , nasdaq options services, llc, which previously served as the routing broker for our u.s. options exchanges, became non-operational and terminated its exchange and clearinghouse memberships in march 2014 , although it is still subject to certain regulatory requirements. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx, nasdaq phlx, bats-y exchange, bats-z exchange, chicago stock exchange, edga exchange, edgx exchange, finra, nyse, nyse mkt and nyse arca. execution access is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 22 states and the u.s. virgin islands based on business requirements. additionally, execution access is a finra member organization. execution access operates a transparent central limit order book known as espeed to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access is an introducing broker for trades matched on the espeed trading platform. the trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. npm securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 2 states based on business requirements. additionally, npm securities is a finra member organization. npm securities does not hold funds or securities. funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. the issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for nasdaq execution services , execution access and npm securities. 11 table of contents as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access and npm securities are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2014, nasdaq execution services, execution access and npm securities were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. nasdaq serves as the processor and administrator for the utp plan. as the processor, nasdaq performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the utp plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the exchange act and regulation nms. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, nasdaq has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. cftc regulation. we also operate nasdaq futures, inc., or nfx , a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. nfx is anticipated to resume trading operations in 2015. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or dodd-frank act, also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the united states and their customers. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and european economic area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. at the end of 2012, emir, a new regulation relating to ccp services and otc 12 table of contents derivatives transactions was adopted. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq nordic clearing, like other european ccps, applied to reauthorize its ccp operations. nasdaq nordic clearing was the first european ccp to be authorized as emir compliant when the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa, approved its application as a ccp under emir on march 18, 2014. mifid ii and mifir came into force in 2014. these regulations will primarily affect our european trading businesses as they are implemented over the next few years. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir will be implemented through technical standards to be drafted by the european securities and markets authority, or esma, and approved by the european commission. implementation is ongoing and both mifid ii and mifir will apply to the european union member states by january 2017. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq nordic clearing role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq stockholm exchange activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq nordic clearing holds the license as a ccp. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma and emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in iceland, norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges and at nasdaq omx oslo asa with respect to the trading of commodities derivatives. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of each exchange. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. 13 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2014, nasdaq had 3,687 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq website and click on investor relations, then under financial information click on sec filings. we use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our data products, index licensing, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and demand for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include ice, lse, deutsche b rse and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. these exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, data products, listings, regulation, index, and technology services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark pools and internalization engines that may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing or data businesses more competitive than ours. in november 2013, ice completed its acquisition of nyse euronext, and in 2014, ice spun off euronext via an ipo. in early 2014, bats merged with direct edge, creating a holding company with four equity platforms that currently execute roughly the same amount of volume as nasdaq three u.s. equity platforms. during 2014, both combined companies focused on their integration 14 table of contents activities, which have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. in addition, our listing, index licensing and technology solutions pricing is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our data products, indexes, corporate solutions and market technology. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small amount of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. data products revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for data products or technology products due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a decline in trading and clearing volume and market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our data products business. 15 table of contents system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trading outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. in february 2011, we announced that, through our normal security monitoring systems, we detected suspicious files on our u.s. servers. following this incident, we implemented a number of new technical controls and other initiatives to enhance our information security. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain electronic trading platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our electronic trading platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our electronic trading platforms fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our electronic trading platforms to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our technology solution businesses, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may experience losses and liabilities as a result of systems issues that arose during the facebook, inc. ipo. in connection with the ipo by facebook on may 18, 2012, systems issues were experienced at the opening of trading of facebook shares. certain of our members may have been disadvantaged by such systems issues, which have subsequently been remedied. we announced a program for voluntary accommodations to qualifying members, which was approved by the sec in march 2013, and we paid all valid claims submitted through the program in december 2013. as a result of the systems issues, we have been sued by retail investors and trading firms in certain putative class actions, many of which have been consolidated into a single action, as well as in five other lawsuits by individual investors. the plaintiffs have asserted claims for negligence, gross negligence, fraud, and violations of section 20(a) of the exchange act and rule 10b-5, promulgated under the exchange act. in addition, a member organization filed a demand for arbitration seeking indemnification for alleged losses associated with the facebook ipo. we believe that these lawsuits and arbitration demand are without merit and intend to defend them vigorously. 16 table of contents in addition, as previously disclosed, the sec completed an investigation into the facebook matter. pursuant to our offer of settlement, which the sec accepted, our subsidiaries, the nasdaq stock market llc and nasdaq execution services llc, agreed to implement several measures aimed at preventing future violations of the exchange act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. we fully implemented and provided the sec with a certification of our compliance with these undertakings by december 31, 2013 as agreed. in addition, the nasdaq stock market llc paid a $10 million penalty to the united states treasury. while we are unable to predict the outcome of the pending litigation or arbitration, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. pending the resolution of these matters, we expect to incur significant additional expenses in defending the arbitration and lawsuits. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. on august 22, 2013, we experienced an outage in the exclusive processor system we maintain and operate on behalf of all exchanges that trade nasdaq stocks that resulted in a market-wide trading halt lasting approximately three hours. following this system outage, the sec and others evaluated all infrastructure that is critical to the national market system, including the processor systems. we proposed upgrades designed to make those systems more robust and resilient, and through a series of decisions in 2013 and 2014, the measures related to the nasdaq-listed stock processor have been approved by the utp operating committee. as a result, the resiliency of the processor system has been significantly improved. if, despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. in may 2013, we acquired the tr corporate businesses, and in june 2014, we acquired espeed. in 2014, we acquired the remaining 28% ownership interest in bwise, and in early 2015, we acquired dwa. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of these and other acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on a deal partner for transition services, including billing services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; 17 table of contents pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we face risks when launching new products , initiatives and platforms . we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. for example, in 2013, we launched nasdaq nlx, and in 2014, we launched npm. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products and initiatives. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and europe. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future in response to global conditions and events. in the u.s., our markets and broker-dealer subsidiaries are regulated by the sec, finra and/or cftc and, in the nordics, baltics and u.k., our markets are subject to local and/or european union regulation. as a result, our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. in 2013, the sec completed an investigation into the facebook matter and accepted our offer of settlement which included a monetary penalty and an agreement to implement certain measures aimed at preventing future violations of the exchange act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. in the future, we could be subject to sec or other regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and 18 table of contents oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sro s. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges or central securities depositories. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure and technological oversight. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. in november 2014, the sec adopted regulation systems compliance and integrity, or regulation sci, a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. also, in 2012, the sec required national securities exchanges and finra to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (cat) to improve regulators ability to monitor trading activity. we are currently working with finra and the other national securities exchanges in developing a plan to create a consolidated audit trail. the european parliament continues its review of mifid ii that could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as sro status, short selling, co-location, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, market halts, the data products business, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. in the u.s., the cftc and sec also will continue to take actions to fully implement the dodd-frank act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. 19 table of contents while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, the adoption of these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs and obligations on the operation of our u.s. exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. we have defeated two challenges in federal appeals court but an additional challenge is currently pending at the sec. if the results of that challenge are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our data products revenues. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. it is expected that the future mifid ii directive will result in a definition of the term reasonable commercial basis . there is a risk that the final wording of this definition may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition any future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner that we do today thereby causing an adverse effect on our data products revenues. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for initial public offerings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility, our 5.25% senior notes due 2018, our 3.875% senior notes due 2021 , and our 4.25% senior notes due 2024 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our data products business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; 20 table of contents the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our data products, index, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2014, goodwill totaled approximately $5.5 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $2.1 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets for impairment by applying a fair value based test by analyzing historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. however, disruptions to our business, such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results, may result in an impairment charge related to our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. in particular, our u.s. business operations are heavily concentrated on the east coast, and our european business operations are heavily concentrated in stockholm. any event that affects either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. additionally, since borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is 21 table of contents possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald &amp; co., or cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2014, we have contributed $ 19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation, or ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. some of the non-ficc counterparties are required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. although w e believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2014 was approximately $2.3 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $62 7 million under our revolving credit facility. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our revolving credit facility. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. our revolving credit facility allows us to pay cash dividends on our common stock as long as certain leverage ratios are maintained. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority , this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. 22 table of contents some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a n sro . although our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges outsource a substantial portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 table of contents as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets, that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, armenia, the middle east, africa and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the u.k., australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the swedish krona, norwegian krone, euro, british pound , australian dollar and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will 24 table of contents affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq global risk steering committee, which is comprised of employees of nasdaq. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets , and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. in 2013 and 2014, our board of directors declared quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq board of directors. the board determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2014, there were 168,795,263 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to nasdaq equity incentive plan, or equity plan. there were 3,316,782 options exercisable as of december 31, 2014 at a weighted average exercise price of $27.56. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. 25 table of contents in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 201 4 , approximately 33 . 6 % of our revenues less transaction-based expenses and 26.9 % of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone , danish krone and british pound . the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 201 4 when compared with the same period in 201 3 : revenues less transaction -based expenses increased $ 172 million, or 9 . 1 %, to $ 2 , 067 million in 201 4 , compared with $1, 895 million in 201 3 , reflecting an operational increase of $ 196 million and a n un favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 24 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to an: increase in corporate solutions revenues of $81 million , reflecting higher revenues resulting from the acquisition of the tr corporate b usinesses in may 2013; increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses of $35 million, primarily from u.s. cash equity trading; increase in data products revenues of $ 24 million, primarily from u.s. data products; increase in f ixed i ncome , currency and commodities t rading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses of $22 m illion , primarily reflecting the acquisition of espeed; increase in index licensing and services revenues of $15 million, primarily due to higher assets under management and product growth; increase in market technology revenues of $ 14 million , primarily from higher software as a service revenues ; and increase in listing services revenues of $ 12 million, primarily due to increases in both new listings and the number of listed companies , partially offset by; a decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses of $11 million, primarily from u.s. equity derivative trading and clearing less transaction-based expenses. operating expenses increased $ 106 million, or 8.8%, to $ 1 , 313 million in 201 4 , compared with $ 1,207 million in 201 3 , reflecting an operational increase of $ 116 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 10 million. the 34 table of contents increase in operational expenses was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, higher occupancy expense related to a sublease loss reserve recorded in 2014, and higher merger and strategic initiatives expense. partially offsetting these increases were expenses recorded during 2013 consisting of restructuring charges, expense related to our voluntary accommodation program, and $10 million related to an sec matter. interest expense increased $ 6 million, or 5 .4%, to $11 7 million in 201 4 , compared with $ 111 million in 201 3 , primarily due to the issuance of 600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior unsecured notes due june 2021, or the 2021 notes, in june 2013 and the issuance of $500 million of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due june 1, 2024, or the 2024 notes , in may 2014, partially offset by the early extinguishment of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 4.00% senior notes due 2015 , or the 2015 n otes , in june 2014, the repayment of 2.50% convertible senior notes in august 2013, and lower outstanding balances on our credit facilities . see note 9 , debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gain on sale of investment security of $30 million in 2013 relate d to the sale of our available-for-sale investment securit y in dubai financial market pjsc, or dfm. asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($38 million ) and certain technology assets ($11 million ). asset impairment charges in 2013 of $1 4 million relate d to certain acquired intangible assets associate d with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($ 7 million). income tax provision de creased $ 35 million, or 16 . 2 %, in 2014 compared with 2013, primarily due to a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits in 2014 compared with 2013. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. excluding asset impairment charges , merger and strategic initiatives expense , sublease loss reserves, extinguishment of debt, gain on sale of investment security, our voluntary accommodation program expense , expenses paid with respect to an sec matter, restructuring charges, and other items that are not reflective of our core business performance, net of taxes, non-gaap consolidated net income attributable to n asdaq for the year ended december 31, 201 4 was $4 99 million , or $ 2 . 88 per diluted share, compared with $4 45 million, or $2. 60 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 201 3 . see non-gaap financial measures below for further discussion. 2015 outlook for the seventh year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. the economic environment remained relatively stable in 2014, although economic and political uncertainty continue to weigh on the global economy, particularly in europe, and the debate over future fiscal and monetary policy in the u.s. and europe continues. by traditional measures, it was also a difficult year for the exchange business. after reaching an all-time high in 2009, u.s. cash equity trading volume fell four consecutive years, finally experiencing a small increase in 2014. trading volume in many nations around the world continues to be driven by volatility associated with the global financial crisis, whereas in only a few places, such as the u.s. , is volume driven by the prospects for sustained economic growth. while the economic view may be that the worst of the financial crisis has passed, robust economic growth has yet to develop, particularly in europe. the fall in oil prices may negatively impact the economics of oil-exporting nations, some of which have exchanges buying our technology. consequently, nasdaq has intentionally structured its organization to account for the highly cyclical nature of our industry. by diversifying our earnings through the sale of corporate solutions, access services, market technology and data products, and by delivering on cost savings, nasdaq has been able to provide stable revenues and operating income during these tough conditions. should 2015 present an equally difficult environment, we believe our organization is positively positioned to compete . we launched several important initiatives during 2013 and 2014 that we expect to benefit us during the ongoing challenging and competitive economic environment. in may 2013, we completed our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses , which provide insight, analytics and communications solutions. these complementary businesses have been integrated into our corporate solutions business, which is part of our technology solutions segment, to offer a comprehensive portfolio of technology-driven solutions to more than 10,000 clients worldwide. we continue to leverage the opportunities in our corporate solutions and market technology businesses by offering new products to our expanding customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers . additionally, in june 2013 we acquired the espeed platform, which operates a fully executable central limit order book for electronic trading in benchmark u.s. treasuries, one of the largest and most liquid cash markets in the world, enabling us to enter new markets with a low-cost platform available to both existing and new clients, while creating additional sales opportunities for both our market services and data products businesses. during 2014 , we move d espeed onto nasdaq infrastructure and into nasdaq data centers to reduce costs and make these products more accessible to market participants. we also expanded the range of u.s. treasury securities traded on the espeed platform. 35 table of contents during 2014, the u.s. ipo market experienced its best year since 2000 and t he nordic ipo market experienced its best year since 2007. both markets benefitted from relatively low volatility and several years of gains in equit y markets. the u.s. also continues to benefit from the 2012 jumpstart our business startups act, or jobs act, which wa intended to encourage companies to seek access to public capital through an ipo. while the direction of the markets and the long-term effects of the jobs act remain to be seen, the overall strong trend in ipos may be a positive sign for 2015. we expect the continued demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing a gradual return of economic growth and favorable valuations in 2014. our expectation is not across the board , as some national economies and specific industries offer better prospects to investors than others. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital could positively impact the ipo pipeline in 2015 . during 2015, we expect to confront changes in both the competitive and regulatory environments. in november 2013, ice completed its acquisition of nyse euronext and i n 2014, they spun off euronext via an ipo. in early 2014, bats merged with direct edge, creating a holding company with four equity platforms that currently execute roughly the same amount of volume as nasdaq three u.s. cash equity platforms. as new management in both organizations implement their strategy , both of t hese transactions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face. european regulators are currently moving forward on a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. the implementation of emir is changing the way we structure and operate the nordic clearinghouse. mifid ii, as well as the new regulations in mifir , will change the way our trading business will operate and will create both challenges to our existing businesses and new opportunities for growth. full implementation of these regulations will take several years and consequently create an uncertain environment for our businesses. finally, our clients are confronting significant regulatory changes in both the u.s. and europe as regulations resulting from legislation in the aftermath of the financial crisis are implemented. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2015, driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe. these policy changes could result in the continued fragmentation of cash equity markets into additional venues, and trading could continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems, particularly in the u.s. conversely, trading in otc derivatives could begin to move onto exchanges and other execution facilities . any further expansion of the global economy in the year ahead may be positive for our business drivers and our operations. we believe that our continuous aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives will enable us to benefit from any improving economic conditions in 2015. we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments since january 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. all prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. prior to january 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. see note 1 , organization and nature of operations , to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our reportable segments. sources of revenues and transaction-b ased expenses see revenue recognition and transaction- b ased expenses, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our sources of revenues and transaction-based expenses. 36 table of contents nasdaq operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, listing services, and technology solutions segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watch es these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 market services equity derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options total industry average daily volume (in millions) 15.3 14.8 14.7 nasdaq phlx matched market share 16.0% 18.2% 21.3% the nasdaq options market matched market share 10.0% 8.7% 5.5% nasdaq bx options market matched market share 0.9% 1.0% 0.4% total matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 26.9% 27.9% 27.2% nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic options and futures total average daily volume options and futures contracts (1) 358,141 390,816 367,599 cash equity trading total u.s.-listed securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 6.41 6.19 6.44 matched share volume (in billions) 326.0 292.9 334.1 matched market share executed on nasdaq 17.1% 15.6% 17.0% matched market share executed on nasdaq bx 2.5% 2.5% 2.7% matched market share executed on nasdaq psx 0.6% 0.7% 1.1% total matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 20.2% 18.8% 20.8% market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 30.3% 33.5% 31.4% total market share (2) 50.5% 52.3% 52.2% nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic securities average daily number of equity trades 351,772 309,967 324,322 total average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 4.8 $ 4.3 $ 3.9 total market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 71.5% 68.6% 68.7% fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing total u.s.-fixed income total average daily volume on the run u.s. treasury contracts (in billions) 225.4 203.0 - total market share 32.9% 35.0% - nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic fixed income total average daily volume fixed income contracts 98,948 128,290 130,265 nasdaq commodities power contracts cleared (twh) (3) 1,564 1,680 1,703 listing services initial public offerings nasdaq 189 126 72 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic 47 14 6 37 table of contents new listings nasdaq (4) 327 239 158 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic (5) 72 34 18 number of listed companies nasdaq (6) 2,782 2,637 2,577 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic (7) 792 758 754 technology solutions market technology order intake (in millions) (8) $ 311 $ 325 $ 273 total order value (in millions) (9) $ 704 $ 660 $ 565 (1) includes finnish option contracts traded on eurex. (2) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trade report facility. (3) primarily transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq commodities measured by twh. (4) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (5) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq first north. (6) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (7) represents companies listed on the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq first north at period end. (8) total contract value of orders signed during the period. (9) represents total contract value of signed orders that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue, as discussed in note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements, represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. 38 table of contents segment operating results of our total 2014 revenues less transaction-based expenses of $ 2 , 067 million , 39 . 4 % was from our market services segment, 11 . 5 % was from our listing services segment, 22 . 9 % was from our information services segment and 26 . 2 % was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2013 revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 41.0% was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.0% was from our information services segment and 24.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our total 2012 revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our market services segment, 13.4% was from our listing services segment, 23.9% was from our information services segment and 17.3% was from our technology solutions segment. the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) market services $ 2,247 $ 2,092 $ 2,206 7.4% (5.2)% transaction-based expenses (1,433) (1,316) (1,446) 8.9% (9.0)% market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 814 776 760 4.9% 2.1% listing services 238 228 224 4.4% 1.8% information services 473 436 400 8.5% 9.0% technology solutions 542 455 290 19.1% 56.9% total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,067 $ 1,895 $ 1,674 9.1% 13.2% 39 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 525 $ 514 $ 507 2.1% 1.4% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (285) (259) (250) 10.0% 3.6% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (32) (33) (34) (3.0)% (2.9)% equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 208 222 223 (6.3)% (0.4)% cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,335 1,212 1,369 10.1% (11.5)% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (780) (743) (854) 5.0% (13.0)% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (332) (279) (308) 19.0% (9.4)% cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 223 190 207 17.4% (8.2)% fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues 130 111 73 17.1% 52.1% transaction-based expenses: brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (4) (2) - # # fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 126 109 73 15.6% 49.3% access and broker services revenues 257 255 257 0.8% (0.8)% total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 814 $ 776 $ 760 4.9% 2.1% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $ 28 million in 201 4 , $ 27 million in 201 3 and $ 32 million in 201 2 . section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses . (2) includes section 31 fees of $ 306 million in 201 4 , $ 243 million in 201 3 and $ 277 million in 201 2 . section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses . market services market services revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in both cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses and fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses, partially offset by a decline in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses. market services revenues included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million in 2014. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional revenues less transaction-based expenses from our fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing business and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million, partially offset by a decline in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an overall increase in market share at our three u.s. options exchanges and higher industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. 40 table of contents equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the decrease in 2014 was primarily due to declines in u.s. average net capture and overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 m illion, partially offset by an increase in industry trading volumes . section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees were $28 million in 2014, $27 million in 2013 and $32 million in 2012. the increase in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded. the decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to lower pass-through fee rates. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in both 2014 compared to 2013 and 2013 compared to 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in overall rebate capture rates and an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decrease in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an increase in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges and slightly higher industry trading volumes. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the decrease in 2014 is primarily due to a decrease in routing costs due to lower volume routed, partially offset by an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to lower section 31 pass-through fees, partially offset by an increase in routing costs. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues increased in 2014 compared with 2013 and decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees and an increase in overall u.s. matched market share, partially offset by lower u.s. revenue capture and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to declines in u.s. industry trading volumes and our u.s. matched market share, and a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees. cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2014 compared with 2013 and decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share, higher industry trading volumes, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in our overall u.s. matched market share, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees were $306 million in 2014, $243 million in 2013 and $277 million in 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq trading systems, partially offset by lower pass-through fee rates. the decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to lower dollar volume traded on nasdaq trading systems and lower pass-through fee rates. for nasdaq and nasdaq psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates increased in 2014 compared with 2013 and decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. the in crease in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share and higher u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decline in rebate capture. the decrease i n 2 013 was primarily due to a decline in u.s. industry trading volumes and our u.s. matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2014 compared with 2013 and decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees, partially offset by a decrease in routing costs due to lower volume routed. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in u.s. industry trading volumes and our u.s. matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees in 2012 also include income of $11 million from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange. fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues fixed income , currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increases were primarily due to transaction fees generated from our espeed 41 table of contents electronic benchmark u.s. treasury trading platform that was acquired on june 28, 2013. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries , of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the increase in 2014 was also due to an increase in other revenues and fees primarily due to higher clearing revenues, partial ly offset by a decline in short-term futures and options interest product revenues due to lower volume, the impact of nasdaq nlx trading incentives and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. access and broker services revenues access and broker services revenues increased in 2014 compared with 2013 and decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to increased revenues from the addition of hosting revenues from espeed which was acquired i n june 2013. access and broker services revenues included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million in 2014. the decrease in 2013 was primarily due to declines in customer demand for network connectivity services, partially offset by increased revenues from the addition of espeed hosting revenues and new products. listing services the following table shows revenues from our listing services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) listing services revenues $ 238 $ 228 $ 224 4.4% 1.8% listing services listing services revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in both u.s. and european listing services revenues. the increase in u.s. listing services revenues for 2014 was primarily due to increases in both initial listing and annual listing fees reflecting an increase in new listings and the number of listed companies. the number of nasdaq listed companies was 2,782 as of december 31, 2014 compared with 2,637 as of december 31, 2013. partially offsetting the increase in u.s. listing services revenues in 2014 was a decrease in listing of additional shares fees . the increase in european listing services revenues in 2014 was driven by an increase in the number of listed companies and higher market capitalization, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million . the increase in 2013 was due to higher market capitalization and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: . year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) information services revenues: data products revenues $ 384 $ 362 $ 337 6.1% 7.4% index licensing and services revenues 89 74 63 20.3% 17.5% total information services revenues $ 473 $ 436 $ 400 8.5% 9.0% information services information services revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012 due to increases in both data products and index licensing and services revenues. data products revenues data products revenues increased in both 2014 compared to 2013 and 2013 compared to 2012. the increases were primarily due to higher customer demand for u.s. proprietary data products, select pricing initiatives, and an increase in revenues due to the acquisition of espeed, which was completed on june 28, 2013. see acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. lower audit collections and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset the increase in data products revenues in 2014 while higher audit collections and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million contributed to the increase in 2013. 42 table of contents index licensing and services revenues index licensing and services revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012 due to an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with nasdaq-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses. the increase in 2013 was also due to our acquisition of the index business of mergent, inc., including indxis, in december 2012. technology solutions the following table shows revenues from our technology solutions segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) technology solutions revenues: corporate solutions revenues $ 314 $ 230 $ 89 36.5% # market technology revenues 228 225 201 1.3% 11.9% total technology solutions revenues $ 542 $ 455 $ 290 19.1% 56.9% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. technology solutions technology solutions revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012 due to increases in both corporate solutions and market technology revenues. technology solutions revenues included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million in 2014 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2013. corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to the acquisition of the tr corporate businesses completed on may 31, 2013, an increase in the number of clients utilizing directors desk, expanding customer utilization of globenewswire products and a favorable im pact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of the tr corporate businesses and expanding customer utilization of our public relations products. see acquisition of the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. market technology revenues market technology revenues increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increases were primarily due to operational increases in oftware as a service revenues , software license and support revenues and advisory revenues reflecting increased customer demand . p artially offsetting the 2014 increase was a decrease in change request revenues and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million. market technology revenues reflected a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2013. total order value as of december 31, 2014, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $704 million. market technology deferred revenue, included in the total technology solutions deferred revenue of $ 247 million , represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: 43 table of contents total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2015 $ 188 2016 172 2017 119 2018 88 2019 54 2020 and thereafter 83 total $ 704 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 588 $ 539 $ 454 9.1% 18.7% marketing and advertising 32 30 26 6.7% 15.4% depreciation and amortization 137 122 104 12.3% 17.3% professional and contract services 157 151 107 4.0% 41.1% computer operations and data communications 92 82 60 12.2% 36.7% occupancy 110 98 93 12.2% 5.4% regulatory 27 30 34 (10.0)% (11.8)% merger and strategic initiatives 81 22 4 # # general, administrative and other 89 80 58 11.3% 37.9% restructuring charges - 9 44 # (79.5)% voluntary accommodation program - 44 - # # total operating expenses $ 1,313 $ 1,207 $ 984 8.8% 22.7% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses increased $106 million in 2014 compared with 2013 and increased $223 million in 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 reflects an operational increase of $11 6 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million . the operational increase in 2014 was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, higher occupancy expense reflecting a sublease loss reserve recorded in 2014, and loss on debt extinguishment. partially offsetting these increases were expenses recorded during 2013 consisting of restructuring charges, expense related to our voluntary accommodation program, and $10 million related to an sec matter. the increase in 2013 reflects an operational increase of $214 million and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 million. the operational increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, the voluntary accommodation program expense, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, and expenses paid with respect to an sec matter, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges. compensation and benefits expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an operational increase of $ 57 million , partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the operational increase primarily reflects additional salary expense resulting from our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, as well as higher share-based compensation expense due to the timing of the issuance of our 2013 equity awards. see note 12, share-based compensation, for further discussion. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to an operational increase of $81 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. the operational increase primarily reflects additional salary expense due to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses, espeed, bwise in may 2012 and nos clearing in july 2012, as well as higher compensation expense reflecting increased financial performance. partially offsetting the 2013 increases were lower salary costs due to workforce reductions of 257 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions beginning 44 table of contents in the first quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 3 , 687 employees at december 31, 2014 from 3,365 at december 31, 2013. headcount was 2,506 at december 31, 2012. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers and our rebranding initiative. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. depreciation and amortization expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in both periods was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets, primarily relating to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with software development . professional and contract services expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in both periods was primarily due to revenue-related costs incurred as a result of our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses, costs incurred for legal expenses and the launch of new initiatives . the revenue-related costs are primarily due to the production and delivery of webcast events as well as other events and services. computer operations and data communications expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher software development expenditures primarily associated with our technology solutions businesses and additional expense as a result of our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional expense as a result of our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed , as wel l as higher communication line costs. occupancy expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an $11 million sublease loss reserve charge on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional costs related to our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $81 million in 2014 compared with $22 million in 2013 and $4 million in 2012. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2014 was primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party . merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2013 primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed. the costs incurred in 2013 were partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party and the remeasurement of a contingent purchase price liability related to the bwise acquisition due to changes in the anticipated performance of bwise. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2012 primarily related to our agreement to acquire the tr corporate businesses and costs related to other acquisitions and strategic initiatives, partially offset by a gain on our acquisition of nos clearing in july 2012. general, administrative and other expense increased in both 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to additional expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, an $11 million loss on extinguishment of debt in 2014, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million in 2014 . partially offsetting this increase was $10 million of expense rela ted to an sec matter incurred in 2013. the increase in 2013 was primarily due to expenses paid with respect to an sec matter of $10 million, additional expenses related to the acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, the launch of new initiatives, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million . see early extinguishment of 2015 notes and 2011 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt extinguishment. restructuring charges were $9 million in 2013 and $44 million in 2012. our restructuring program was completed in the first quarter of 2013. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2013 and 2012. voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million in 2013 relates to the one-time program for voluntary accommodation to qualifying members of up to $62 million, for which a liability was recorded when the program was approved by the sec in march 2013. this program expanded the pool available to compensate members of the nasdaq stock market for qualified losses arising directly from the system issues experienced with the facebook ipo that occurred on may 18, 2012. after claims were reviewed, our liability was reduced to $44 million and payment of valid claims totaling $44 million was made in the fourth quarter of 2013. 45 table of contents non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) interest income $ 6 $ 9 $ 10 (33.3)% (10.0)% interest expense (117) (111) (97) 5.4% 14.4% net interest expense (111) (102) (87) 8.8% 17.2% gain on sale of investment security - 30 - # # asset impairment charges (49) (14) (40) # (65.0)% loss on divestiture of business - - (14) - # net loss from unconsolidated investees - (2) (1) # # total non-operating expenses $ (160) $ (88) $ (142) 81.8% (38.0)% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total non-operating expenses were $160 million in 2014 compared with $88 million in 2013 and $142 million in 2012. total non-operating expenses for 2014 include d net interest expense of $111 million and asset impairment charges of $49 million. total non-operating expenses for 2013 primarily include d net interest expense of $102 million and asset impairment charges of $14 million, partially offset by a gain of $30 million on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in dfm . total non-operating expenses for 2012 primarily include d net interest expense of $87 million, asset impairment charges of $40 million and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. interest income interest income decreased in both 201 4 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. the decreases were primarily due to lower average cash and financial investments balance as well as a decrease in short-term interest rates . interest expense interest expense for 2014 was $117 million , and was comprised of $110 million of interest expense, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, $1 million of non-cash expense associated with the accretion of debt discounts, and $3 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense increased in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to the issuance of our 2021 notes in june 2013 and the issuance of our 2024 notes in may 2014, partially offset by the early extinguishment of our 2015 notes in june 2014, the repayment of our 2.50% convertible senior notes in august 2013, and lower outstanding balances on our 2011 c redit f acility. interest expense for 2013 was $111 million, and was comprised of $101 million of interest expense, $3 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to the issuance of the 2021 notes in june 2013 , partially offset by the repayment of our 2.50% convertible senior notes in august 2013 . see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. gain on sale of investment security in the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold an available-for-sale investment security for $48 million and recorded a gain of $30 million on the sale, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. asset impairment charges asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 related to a $38 million non-cash intangible asset impairment charge associated with customer relationships and an $11 million non-cash asset impairment charge related to certain technology assets . asset impairment charges of $14 million in 2013 related to non-cash intangible asset impairment charges related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($7 million). in 2012, we recorded non-cash intangible asset impairment charges totaling $28 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million) and a certain trade name ($3 million). in addition, we also recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in the european multilateral clearing facility 46 table of contents n.v., or emcf. see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the intangible asset impairment charges in 2014, 2013 and 2012. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impairment of emcf. loss on divestiture of businesses in august 2012, we sold international derivatives clearing group, llc, or idcg , and recorded a loss of $14 million. see 2012 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. net loss from unconsolidated investees net loss from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in 2013 and $1 million in 2012 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. tax matters nasdaq income tax provision was $181 million in 2014 compared with $216 million in 2013 and $199 million in 2012. the overall effective tax rate was 30.5% in 2014, 36.0% in 2013 and 36.3% in 2012. the lower effective tax rate in 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits in 2014. the lower effective tax rate in 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to a reversal of a valuation allowance associated with our available-for-sale investment security in dfm, a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses, and a reduction in the tax rate in sweden. in 2013, we also recorded a lower increase in tax expense associated with deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the impact of changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., compared to the impact recorded in 2012. partially offsetting the decrease in tax expense is the derecognition of a previously recognized tax benefit as a result of new information received in 2013, as well as expenses associated with investments in certain jurisdictions for which we are not able to recognize a tax benefit. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. see note 10, "income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our tax matters. net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $1 million in both 2014 and 2013, and $3 million in 2012. the net loss in 2012 was primarily attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial 47 table of contents items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to nasdaq for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions, other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our core operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $81 million primarily related to our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013 and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this charge is offset in item (vi) below , (ii) asset impairment charges of $49 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and certain technology assets , (iii) sublease loss reserve charge of $11 million on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity , (iv) loss on extinguishment of debt of $11 million reflecting $9 million related to our 2015 notes and $2 million related to the refinancing of our 2011 credit facility. for further discussion, see early extinguishment of 2015 notes, and credit facilities, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements , (v) special legal expense of $2 million, (vi) adjustment to the income tax provision of $72 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and vii) significant tax adjustments, net of $1 million due to adjustments related to our 2011 through 2013 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $22 million reflecting $45 million of merger and strategic initiative costs primarily associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this credit is offset in item (viii) below, (ii) asset impairment charges of $14 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and a certain trade name, (iii) special legal expense of $3 million , (iv) restructuring charges of $9 million - for further discussion, see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements, ( v ) voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million, (vi) gain on sale of investment security of $30 million related to the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in dfm , (vii) expenses paid with respect to an sec matter of $10 million - for further discussion of the sec matter, see litigation, of note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements, (viii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $13 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (ix) significant tax adjustments, net of $4 million due to an increase in net deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions . non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $4 million related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, net of gain on acquisition of nos clearing, (ii) asset impairment charges of $40 million related to certain acquired intangible assets totaling $28 million as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity method interest in emcf, (iii) special legal expense of $7 million, (iv) restructuring charges of $44 million related to workforce reductions of $23 million, facilities-related charges of $10 million, asset impairment charges of $9 million and $2 million of other charges, (v ) income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange of $11 million, (vi) loss on divestiture of business of $14 million related to the sale of idcg , (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $32 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (viii) significant tax adjustments, net of $14 million due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., adjustments related to our 2005 2011 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision, partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings. the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 414 $ 2.39 $ 385 $ 2.25 $ 352 $ 2.04 non-gaap adjustments: merger and strategic initiatives 81 0.47 22 0.13 4 0.02 asset impairment charges 49 0.28 14 0.08 40 0.23 sublease loss reserve 11 0.07 - - - - extinguishment of debt 11 0.07 - - - - 48 table of contents special legal expense 2 0.01 3 0.02 7 0.04 restructuring charges - - 9 0.05 44 0.26 voluntary accommodation program - - 44 0.26 - - gain on sale of investment security - - (30) (0.18) - - sec matter - - 10 0.06 - - income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange - - - - (11) (0.06) loss on divestiture of business - - - - 14 0.08 other 2 - (3) (0.02) - - adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (72) (0.42) (13) (0.07) (32) (0.19) significant tax adjustments, net 1 0.01 4 0.02 14 0.08 total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 85 0.49 60 0.35 80 0.46 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 499 $ 2.88 $ 445 $ 2.60 $ 432 $ 2.50 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 173,018,849 171,266,146 172,587,870 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. liquidity and capital resources global markets and economic conditions continue to improve from adverse levels experienced during the past several years and investors and lenders remain cautiously optimistic about the pace of the global economic recovery. a lack of confidence in the prospects for growth could result in sporadic increases in market volatility and lackluster trading volumes, which could in turn affect our ability to obtain additional funding from lenders. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. as part of the acquisition of espeed, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock annually which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. in november 2014, we entered into a $750 million senior unsecured five-year credit facility which matures on november 25, 2019, or the 2014 credit facility. the 2014 credit facility is part of a refinancing of nasdaq former credit agreement, dated as of september 19, 2011, which has been terminated. the 2014 credit facility consists of a $750 million revolving credit commitment (with sublimits for non-dollar borrowings, swingline borrowings and letters of credit). as of december 31, 2014, availability under the revolving credit commitment was $627 million. see 2014 credit facility, and 2011 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations and availability under our revolving credit commitment will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents , receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses , can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $420 million at december 31, 2014, compared with $363 million at december 31, 2013, an increase of $57 million. current asset balance changes in creased working capital by $ 237 million, with increases in default funds and margin deposits, cash and cash equivalents, and other current assets, partially offset by decrease in restricted cash and other items . current liability balance changes de creased working capital by $ 180 million, primarily due to increases in default funds and margin deposits and section 31 fees payable to the sec, partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, current portion of debt obligations and other current liabilities. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and 49 table of contents an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 427 $ 398 restricted cash 49 84 financial investments, at fair value 174 189 total financial assets $ 650 $ 671 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2014, our cash and cash equivalents of $427 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2014 increased $29 million from december 31, 2013 primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by net cash used in investing activities and financing activities. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, current restricted cash included cash held for regulatory purposes and other requirements and is not available for general use. current restricted cash was $49 million as of december 31, 2014 and $84 million as of december 31, 2013, a decrease of $35 million. the decrease is primarily due to restricted cash that had been held at nos clearing as of december 31, 2013. in the second quarter of 2014, nos clearing was fully integrated into nasdaq nordic clearing and is now covered under the regulatory capital structure and liability waterfall of nasdaq nordic clearing. current restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $83 million as of december 31, 2014 and $159 million as of december 31, 2013. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $344 million as of december 31, 2014 and $239 million as of december 31, 2013. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. these purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by our management. the purchases are funded from existing cash balances. the share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time. during 2014, we repurchased 4,592,194 shares of our common stock at an average price of $38.85, for an aggregate purchase price of $178 million. during 2013, we repurchased 321,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $31.12, for an aggregate purchase price of $10 million. in october 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500 million of our outstanding common stock. the shares repurchased under the share repurchase program are available for general 50 table of contents corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2014, the remaining amount authorized for share repurchases under the program was $537 million. cash dividends on common stock in june, september and december 2014, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share on our outstanding common stock and in march 2014, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. in january 2015, the board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share on our outstanding common stock. the dividend is payable on march 27, 2015 to shareholders of record at the close of business on march 13, 2015. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the board of directors. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $174 million as of december 31, 2014 and $189 million as of december 31, 2013 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly swedish government debt securities. of these securities, $ 159 m illion as of december 31, 2014 and $167 million as of december 31, 2013 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for clearing operations at nasdaq nordic clearing. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading securities. debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) 4.00% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) repaid june 2014 $ - $ 400 $1.2 billion senior unsecured five-year credit facility: $450 million senior unsecured term loan facility repaid november 2014 - 349 $750 million revolving credit commitment repaid november 2014 - 95 5.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2018 368 368 $750 million revolving credit commitment november 2019 123 - 5.55% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2020 599 598 3.875% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) june 2021 725 824 4.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) june 2024 498 - total debt obligations 2,313 2,634 less current portion - (45) total long-term debt obligations $ 2,313 $ 2,589 in addition to the $750 million revolving credit commitment due november 2019, we also have other credit facilities related to our nordic clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity and for default protection. at december 31, 2014, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $236 million ($197 million in available liquidity and $39 million for default protection), of which $7 million was utilized. at december 31, 2013, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million for default protection), of which $11 million was util ized. at december 31, 2014, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requiremen ts we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq nordic clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2014, our required regulatory capital consisted of $159 million of swedish government debt securities that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, we have available credit facilities of $39 million at december 31, 2014 that provide default protection for our nordic clearing operations. 51 table of contents broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access and npm securities, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2014, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $ 0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $1 0.2 million, or $9.9 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2014, execution access was required to maintain minimum net capital of $ 0.6 million and had total net capital of $39 .6 million, or $39 .0 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2014, npm securities had total net capital of $ 0. 1 million. the minimum net capital required was immaterial. other capital requirements nasdaq execution services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with the options clearing corporation, or occ . cash flow analysis the following tables summarize the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 percentage change (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 687 $ 574 19.7% investing activities (155) (1,216) (87.3)% financing activities (485) 547 # effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (18) (4) # net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29 (99) # cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 398 497 (19.9)% cash and cash equivalents at the end of period $ 427 $ 398 7.3% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. net cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2014: net income of $413 million, plus: adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of $275 million comprised primarily of $137 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $62 million of share-based compensation expense, $49 million of asset impairment charges, other reconciling items of $28 million, which primarily reflects bad debt expense, and non-cash merger and strategic initiatives expense of $20 million, partially offset by $15 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments. increase in deferred revenue of $64 million mainly related to our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. increase in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $42 million primarily due to higher volumes, contract value and sec fee rates . partially offset by a n : increase in other assets of $55 million primarily reflecting an increase in deferred costs associated with the timing and delivery of technology projects, partially offset by a decrease in restricted cash held for regulatory purposes. decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $40 million reflecting the timing of payments and a decrease in interest payable related to our debt obligations. the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2013: net income of $384 million, plus: adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of $177 million comprised primarily of $122 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $47 million of share-based compensation expense, deferred income taxes of $28 million and $14 million of asset retirements and impairment charges, 52 table of contents partially offset by gain on sale of investment security of $30 million and excess tax benefits related to share-based payments of $16 million. increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $51 million primarily due to recent acquisitions, the timing of payments and an increase in interest payable related to our debt obligations. increase in accrued personnel costs of $39 million primarily due to our 2013 incentive compensation accrual and an increase in employee headcount, partially offset by the payment of our 2012 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2013. partially offset by a n : increase in accounts receivable, net of $55 million primarily due to recent acquisitions and the timing of collections and activity. decrease in deferred revenue of $33 million primarily due to timing and delivery of certain market technology contracts. decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $15 million primarily due to a decrease in section 31 fee rates. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily consisted of cash utilized to fund the acquisitions of espeed and the tr corporate businesses, purchases of trading securities, purchases of property and equipment, and cash paid for equity and cost method investments, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities and proceeds from the sale of our available-for-sale investment security. net cash provided by (used in) financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily consisted of $970 million of cash used in connection with the repayment of debt obligations, which consisted of a $408 million payment to repay in full our 2015 notes, a $349 million payment to repay in full our $450 million funded term loan, or the 2016 term loan, and the repayment of the total amount drawn on our 2011 revolving credit commitment of $213 million, which included $118 million of proceeds received during the year ended december 31, 2014. in addition, cash used in financing activities included $178 million related to the repurchase of our common stock and $98 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. partially offsetting these decreases were net proceeds received of $735 million which consisted of $494 million from the issuance of our 2024 notes, $118 million from the partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment of our 2011 credit facility and $123 million from the partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment of our 2014 credit facility. net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily consisted of proceeds of $ 895 million received from the issuance of the 2021 notes and a partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment of our 2011 credit facility , partially offset by payments of debt obligation totaling $289 million consisting of repayment of our 2.50% convertible senior notes totaling $93 million, repayment of $151 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million made under our 2016 term loan, and $87 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. for further discussion of our acquisitions, see note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our debt obligations, see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our share repurchase program, see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2014: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 2,983 $ 104 $ 210 $ 674 $ 1,995 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 370 79 115 76 100 other obligations (3) 278 275 3 - - total $ 3,631 $ 458 $ 328 $ 750 $ 2,095 53 table of contents (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2014, an interest rate of 2.37% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2014 credit facility. all other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2014. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) other obligations consist of the following: in december 2014, we agreed to acquire dwa for $225 million. in january 2015, we completed this acquisition; our subsidiary, nasdaq phlx, is a shareholder of occ and, as part of a recently announced capital plan , is expected to make a $30 million capital contribution to occ during the first quarter of 2015. t he capital plan is designed to bring occ in to compliance with proposed regulatory requirements for covered clearing agencies . subject to certain conditions , we also have committed to provide specific replenishment capital in accordance with the announced capital plan. a future escrow agreement payment related to a prior acquisition; the second installment payment related to the acquisition of the remaining 28% ownership interest in bwise; and future transition service agreement payments associated with the acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. non-cash contingent consideration as part of the espeed purchase price consideration, we have agreed to future annual issuances of 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. off-balance sheet arrangements default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations default fund contributions clearing members eligible contributions may include cash and non-cash contributions. cash contributions are invested by nasdaq nordic clearing in accordance with its investment policies and are included in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets. however, non-cash contributions, which include highly rated government debt securities that must meet the investment policies of nasdaq nordic clearing, as well as pledged cash, are pledged assets that are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as nasdaq nordic clearing does not take legal ownership of these assets and the risks and rewards remain with the clearing members. these pledged assets are held at a nominee account in nasdaq nordic clearing name for the benefit of the clearing members and are immediately accessible by nasdaq nordic clearing in the event of default. the pledged asset balances may fluctuate over time due to changes in the amount of deposits required and whether members choose to provide cash or non-cash contributions. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our clearing operations and default fund contributions. margin deposits received for clearing operations nasdaq nordic clearing requires all clearing members to provide collateral, which may consist of cash and eligible securities, in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee, to guarantee performance on the clearing members open positions, or initial margin. in addition, clearing members must also provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial margin. pledged collateral is held at a nominee account in nasdaq nordic clearing name for the benefit of the clearing members and is immediately accessible by nasdaq nordic clearing in the event of default. the pledged collateral is not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as all risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belong to the counterparty. clearing member pledged collateral related to our clearing operations was $5.7 billion as of december 31, 2014 and $9.5 billion as of december 31, 2013. nasdaq nordic clearing maintains and manages all cash deposits related to margin collateral and records these cash deposits in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets as both a current asset and current liability. nasdaq nordic clearing marks-to-market all outstanding contracts, requiring payment from clearing members whose positions have lost value. the mark-to-market process helps identify any clearing members that may not be able to satisfy their financial obligations in a timely manner which helps nasdaq nordic clearing manage the risk of a clearing member defaulting due to exceptionally large losses. in the event of a default, nasdaq nordic clearing can access these margin deposits to cover the defaulting member losses. 54 table of contents guarantees issued and credit facilities available in addition to the collateral pledged by clearing members discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. financial guarantees issued to us totaled $14 million at december 31, 2014 and $20 million at december 31, 2013. at december 31, 2014, credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $236 million ($197 million in available liquidity and $39 million for default protection), of which $7 million was utilized. at december 31, 2013, these facilities totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million for default protection), of which $11 million was utilized. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2014, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. some of the non-ficc counterparties are required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. leases we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. other guarantees we have provided other guarantees of $13 million as of december 31, 2014 and $17 million at december 31, 2013. these guarantees primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts as well as performance guarantees on certain market technology contracts related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. in september 2014, we provided a guarantee related to lease obligations for the nasdaq entrepreneurial center inc., or the entrepreneurial center, which is scheduled to open in 2015. the entrepreneurial center will be a not-for-profit organization designed to convene, connect and engage aspiring and current entrepreneurs. this entity is not included in the consolidated financial statements of nasdaq. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for the above guarantees. in connection with nasdaq nlx, we have entered into agreements with certain members which may require us to make payments if certain financial goals are achieved. since the amount of these payments is not currently probable and cannot be quantified as of december 31, 2014, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these payments. other transactions in december 2014, we agreed to acquire dwa for $225 million. in january 201 5 , we completed the acquisition. dwa is part of our information services business. as discussed above in "contractual obligations and contingent commitments, under a newly formed capital plan announced by the occ, we will provide a $30 million capital contribution to occ during the first quarter of 2015 . subject to certain conditions , w e also have committed to provide specific replenishment capital in accordance with the announced capital plan. routing brokerage activities our broker-dealer subsidiary, nasdaq execution services, provides a guarantee to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under its standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. for further discussion of our routing brokerage activities, see routing brokerage activities, of note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. 55 table of contents we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the following table summarizes our financial assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk as of december 31, 2014: financial assets financial liabilities (1) negative impact of a 100bp adverse shift in interest rate (2) (in millions) floating rate positions (3) $ 2,817 $ 2,316 $ 2 fixed rate positions (4) 27 2,196 - (1) represents total contractual debt obligations and amounts related to default fund contributions and margin deposits. (2) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (3) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (4) financial assets primarily consist of swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 2.3 years. we are exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate financial assets of $2,817 million and financial liabilities of $2,316 million at december 31, 2014. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2014 positions, each 1.0% adverse change in interest rate would impact annual pre-tax income by $2 million related to our floating rate positions. we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial assets, which totaled $27 million at december 31, 2014 and have an average duration of 2.3 years. the net effect of a parallel shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would have an immaterial impact on annual pre-tax income related to our fixed rate positions. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, as certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the local functional currency of such subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2014, approximately 33.6% of our revenues less transaction-based expenses and 26.9% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone, danish krone and british pound. for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction-based expenses and 29.0% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone, danish krone and british pound. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone british pound other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) twelve months ended december 31, 2014 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 0.1462 1.3289 0.1592 0.1782 1.6476 # percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 18.3% 4.2% 2.4% 2.5% 2.9% 3.3% percentage of operating income 19.9% 2.2% 4.0% 5.1% (1.9)% (2.4)% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (38) $ (9) $ (5) $ (5) $ (6) $ (7) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15) $ (2) $ (3) $ (4) $ (1) $ (2) 56 table of contents swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone british pound other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) twelve months ended december 31, 2013 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 0.1536 1.3285 0.1703 0.1781 1.5647 # percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 20.1% 4.3% 2.7% 2.5% 1.7% 3.5% percentage of operating income 19.9% 3.7% 4.3% 4.6% (2.6)% (0.9)% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (38) $ (8) $ (5) $ (5) $ (3) $ (7) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14) $ (2) $ (3) $ (3) $ (2) $ (1) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2014 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,607 $ (361) norwegian krone 211 (21) euro 144 (14) british pound 152 (15) australian dollar 87 (9) (1) includes goodwill of $2,804 million and intangible assets, net of $842 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary nasdaq execution services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services arrangements. 57 table of contents pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the espeed trading platform for u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2014, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through ficc, and the balance is cleared non-ficc. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through ficc. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. some of the non-ficc counterparties will be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq nordic clearing. see default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above, as well as note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgment s, assumptions , and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial tatements and accompanying notes . note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the c onsolidated f inancial tatements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the c onsolidated f inancial tatements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition listing services revenues listing services revenues primarily include annual renewal fees, initial listing fees , and listing of additional shares fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period in the u.s. or on a trailing 12-month basis in europe . however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. technology solutions revenues market technology revenues for most technology solutions, w e enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to develop technology solutions , license the right to use software, and provide post-contract support and other services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe, of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. 58 table of contents goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our six reporting units are the market services segment, the listing services segment, the two businesses comprising the information services segment: data products and index licensing and services, and the two businesses comprising the technology solutions segment: corporate solutions and market technology. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 201 4 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in financial accounting standards board , or fasb, accounting standards codification, or asc , topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350 . the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, and other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. first, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. for our annual test of goodwill impairment in 201 4 , we considered the results of our quantitative test performed in january 201 3 on our reportable segments, which indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying amount. we also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units. at the time of our 201 4 annual impairment test, our goodwill balance was $ 5,802 m illion, of which $ 3,222 m illion was attributable to our market services segment, $ 129 m illion was attributable to our listing services segment , $ 1,895 m illion was attributable to our information services segment and $ 556 m illion was attributable to our technology solutions segment. we utilized the qualitative screen for our l isting ervices , data products, index licensing and services and m arket t echnology reporting units , as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment for these four reporting units, we evaluated future financial projections by management to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in asc topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our l isting ervices , data products, index licensing and services and m arket t echnology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended december 31, 201 4 . since the fair values of our market services and corporate solutions reporting units exceed ed their carrying amounts by less than 10% in our 2013 annual goodwill impairment test, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the se reporting unit . we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for both of these reporting units and determined that the fair value of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit exceeded their carrying amount by more than 10% . as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. the fair value of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. the market approach estimates fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the market services and corporate solutions reporting unit operating performance. the multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and 59 table of contents investment characteristics to our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit . the market approach requires management judgment to determine several valuation inputs, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. the control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our market services and corporate solutions reporting unit based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. we determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management estimate of the long-term growth of the business. we then discounted the projected cash flows using a weighted average cost of capital of 10 . 0 % for market services and 10.2% for corporate solutions . although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecast of cash flows generated by our market services and corporate solutions reporting units or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the market services and corporate solutions reporting units would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of an impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 201 4 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 2 5 years customer relationships: 9 30 years other: 2 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. 60 table of contents the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 4, acquisitions and divestiture, and note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. these costs include both internal and third party costs. under our technology solutions segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs are capitalized. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. recent accounting pronouncements see recently adopted accounting pronouncements , and recently issued accounting pronouncements , of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. . 61 table of contents summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 2014 2014 2014 2014 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 898 $ 865 $ 818 $ 919 transaction-based expenses (369) (342) (321) (402) revenues less transaction-based expenses 529 523 497 517 total operating expenses 345 332 290 344 operating income 184 191 207 173 net income attributable to nasdaq $ 103 $ 101 $ 123 $ 87 basic earnings per share $ 0.61 $ 0.60 $ 0.73 $ 0.52 diluted earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 0.59 $ 0.71 $ 0.50 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ - $ 0.15 $ 0.15 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 2013 2013 2013 2013 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 744 $ 814 $ 805 $ 849 transaction-based expenses (326) (363) (299) (329) revenues less transaction-based expenses 418 451 506 520 total operating expenses 328 292 304 282 operating income 90 159 202 238 net income attributable to nasdaq $ 42 $ 88 $ 113 $ 141 basic earnings per share $ 0.26 $ 0.53 $ 0.68 $ 0.84 diluted earnings per share $ 0.25 $ 0.52 $ 0.66 $ 0.81 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 15 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. iii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2016 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products, order backlog and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity; and any litigation or regulatory or government investigation or action to which we are or could become a party. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading and clearing volume, market share, listed companies or other customers; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address cybersecurity risks; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, access services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting equity derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, most of our businesses are operated by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. also in 2008, we expanded our business through the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc. and the boston stock exchange, incorporated. these acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the u.s. derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate u.s. options markets. in addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional u.s. cash equity markets. most recently, in february 2016, we acquired chi-x canada ats limited, a leading alternative market in canada for the trading of canadian-listed securities. we also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. in 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of nord pool asa. as a result of this acquisition, we launched nasdaq commodities, which offers energy and emission allowance derivatives products. in july 2012, we acquired nos clearing asa, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for over-the-counter, or otc, traded derivatives for the freight and fuel oil market, iron ore and seafood derivatives market. in august 2010, we acquired smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. in two separate transactions in 2012 and 2014, we acquired a 100.0% ownership interest in bwise beheer b.v. and its subsidiaries, or bwise, a netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. these acquisitions have expanded our market technology business. in recent years, we have significantly grown our corporate solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. most recently, in 2013, we acquired the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, or the tr corporate businesses. in 2013, we further expanded our market services and information services businesses by acquiring from bgc partners, inc. and certain of its affiliates, or bgc, certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the espeed business, or espeed, including the espeed brand name and various assets comprising the fully electronic portion of bgc benchmark u.s. treasury brokerage, data and co-location service businesses. in 2015, we completed the acquisition of dorsey, wright &amp; associates, llc, or dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. dwa is part of our information services segment. in 2015, we also acquired full ownership of the nasdaq private market, llc, or npm, following the acquisition of the minority stake that was previously held by a third party. in addition, through npm, we acquired secondmarket solutions, inc., or secondmarket, a recognized innovator in facilitating liquidity for private company securities . npm and secondmarket are part of our listing services segment. in september 2015, we changed the name of our holding company from the nasdaq omx group, inc. to nasdaq, inc. 2 table of contents products and services we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. of our 2015 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,090 million, 36.9% was from our market services segment, 12.6% was from our listing services segment, 24.5% was from our information services segment and 26.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2014 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,067 million, 38.5% was from our market services segment, 11.5% was from our listing services segment, 22.9% was from our information services segment and 27.1% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2013 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 39.9% was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.0% was from our information services segment and 25.1% was from our technology solutions segment. see note 1, organization and nature of operations , and note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing, or ficc, and access and broker services businesses. we operate multiple exchanges and other marketplace facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and etps. in addition, in some countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide broker services, clearing, settlement and central depository services. our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions, providing fee-based revenues. equity derivative trading and clearing in the u.s., we operate three options exchanges, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx options, for the trading of equity options, exchange traded fund, or etf, options, index options and foreign currency options. during the year ended december 31, 2015, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 25.2% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 16.7 % at nasdaq phlx, 7.7% at the nasdaq options market and 0.8% at nasdaq bx options. together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the u.s. equity and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the central counterparty, or ccp. nasdaq clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges, the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 15.8% of all u.s. cash equity volume for 2015. in 2015, nasdaq bx matched an average of approximately 2.0% and nasdaq psx matched an average of approximately 1.0% of all u.s. cash equity volume. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. in europe, nasdaq operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the nasdaq nordic exchanges offer trading in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and etfs. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. nasdaq baltic operates exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). nasdaq owns nasdaq tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq vilnius and nasdaq riga. in addition, nasdaq tallinn owns the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq riga owns the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq helsinki and nasdaq vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in lithuania. fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing our ficc business includes fixed income activities in the nordic region, our espeed business, nasdaq nlx, nasdaq futures, 3 table of contents inc., or nfx, and nasdaq commodities. nasdaq nordic provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland and iceland. nasdaq stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 5,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq clearing markets for ccp clearing. nasdaq clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. in june 2013, we acquired espeed, an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities. through espeed, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. nasdaq nlx is a london-based multilateral trading venue that launched in 2013. nasdaq nlx offers a range of both short-term interest rate and long-term interest rate euro-and sterling-based listed derivative products. in the third quarter of 2015, we launched nfx, which is our u.s. based energy derivatives market. nfx offers cash settled energy derivatives based on key energy benchmarks including oil, natural gas and u.s. power. nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. nasdaq commodities offerings include power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, fuel oil, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. nasdaq oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for nasdaq commodities. in addition, all trades with nasdaq commodities are subject to clearing with nasdaq clearing, which is a ccp authorized under the european market infrastructure regulation, or emir, by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa, to conduct clearing operations. nasdaq commodities has approximately 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. access and broker services access services. we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, drop functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. broker services. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication to deposit banks. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. 4 table of contents companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2015, a total of 2,859 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,526 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 674 on the nasdaq global market and 659 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2015, the nasdaq stock market attracted 274 new listings. included in these listings were 143 ipos, 73% of u.s. ipos in 2015. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange, or nyse, and nyse mkt . 27 ipos ................................................................................................. 143 upgrades from otc ........................................................................... 48 etps and other listings ..................................................................... 56 ....................................................................................... total 274 in 2015, a total of 27 nyse- or nyse mkt-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing approximately $83.5 billion in market capitalization. notable switches included t mobile us, inc., csx corporation, pinnacle entertainment, inc. and td ameritrade holding corporation. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2015, a total of 852 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2015, a total of 91 new companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our listing services segment also includes npm and secondmarket, which are marketplaces for private growth companies. information services our information services segment includes our data products and our index licensing and services businesses. data products our data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. revenues from data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx markets. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost level 1 feed and ultrafeed, a normalized high speed feed of north american equity, dwa web-based advisor tools, options, futures, indexes and mutual fund data. in addition, espeed delivers u.s. treasury data. our data products business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market acts as the administrator for the joint self-regulatory organization plan governing the collection, consolidation, and dissemination of quotation and transaction information for nasdaq-listed securities traded on exchanges on an unlisted trading privileges basis, or the utp 5 table of contents plan. in this role, nasdaq sells quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx, based on a formula required by regulation national market system, or regulation nms, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real-time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview, and nordic fixed income totalview, level 2, analytics and fixings. finally, we provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch/global index file delivery service, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. index licensing and services our index licensing and services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. we also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. nasdaq indexes are now the basis for 222 etps with $114 billion in assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. we also operate the nasdaq global index family, which includes more than 40,000 indexes. the nasdaq global index family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and approximately 9,000 securities. in 2015, we completed the acquisition of dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. dwa added to nasdaq robust index portfolio, bringing model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and further strengthened nasdaq position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. technology solutions our technology solutions segment includes our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges. we help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. in 2013, we acquired the tr corporate businesses which were integrated into our corporate solutions business. we provide corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations . we offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools, including investor relations webcasting and websites. our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. in early 2016, we launched nasdaq ir insight, our new investor relations platform. public relations. we offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. we provide traditional and social media contacts databases, backed by over 100 research analysts. our press release distribution network allows clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. our suite of technology solutions and expert 6 table of contents analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. multimedia solutions. we offer a platform and services which enable our customers to produce webcasts for a wide range of applications, including investor relations, public relations, marketing and internal communications. our differentiators include global scale, application expertise, actionable analytics and content distribution. governance. we offer a secure collaboration platform for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. we currently have over 9,500 corporate solutions clients. market technology powering more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. our market technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to emerging markets in the middle east, latin america and africa. our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. our trading and data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. nasdaq market technology is utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, or asx limited, icap, bolsa de valores de colombia, borsa istanbul, egyptian exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing limited, six swiss exchange, singapore exchange, tokyo commodity exchange, japan exchange group, bursa malaysia and sbi japannext. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services. we also offer broker services through smarts. smarts is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. finally, through bwise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. in addition to the four business segments described above, the areas described below are significant to an understanding of our business. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. in 2014, we established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems. this program is focused on identifying areas for improvement in systems and implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. during 2015, we established additional programs focused on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. core technology. the foundation for nasdaq core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across our u.s. and european markets. inet is also a key building block of our market technology offerings, genium inet and x-stream inet. genium inet and x-stream inet both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability, resiliency and market integrity . data centers . nasdaq utilizes data center facilities in key global regions to support our markets, technology services, disaster recovery capabilities and operations centers. in 2015, we expanded our facilities to include chicago and we will continue to add new locations to support our growth and new services. 7 table of contents blockchain initiatives . in may 2015, we announced plans to leverage blockchain technology as part of an enterprise-wide initiative. as an initial application, we have been developing nasdaq linq, an npm solution based on blockchain-enabled technology, that may be used to expand and enhance issuers and investors equity management capabilities. in november 2015, we also announced a project to explore the application of blockchain technology to proxy voting in estonia. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the u.s. and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the u.s. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. competition market services equity derivative trading and clearing. in derivatives trading and clearing, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, inc., or cboe, the international securities exchange holdings, inc., or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex, bats options, edge options, the miax options exchange, c2 options exchange, the box options exchange group, llc and ise gemini. ise and miami international holdings, inc. each announced the launch of new options exchanges expected in 2016. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing and speed of execution. the intense competition for exchange traded options results in the need to continuously review our technology offerings and pricing. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our primary competitors for options on european equities are eurex group ice futures europe, turquoise and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange-based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. the competitive significance in europe of varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the update to markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid ii, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. as trading in europe evolves, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. regulations such as mifid ii, the markets in financial instruments regulation, or mifir, and the emir are altering competition in the clearing business in europe. mifid ii and mifir will both affect our trading business as they are implemented over the next several years. the emir requirements are changing the way we structure and operate our clearing business today as implementation is ongoing and will continue into 2015. cash equity trading. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. we compete in the u.s. against ice, bats global markets, inc., regional exchanges and atss. in addition, other competitors have recently applied to register as a national securities exchange or resumed trading. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, interconnections with other systems, and volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. 8 table of contents in europe, our major competitors include bats chi-x europe, euronext, deutsche b rse ag, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as turquoise. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the proposals in mifid ii. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business also remain active in europe. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges remains intense. fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing. today, many u.s. fixed-income instruments enjoy some form of electronic trading, but the move to electronify the fixed income space is still developing with some products still trading almost exclusively among voice brokers. competition in the fixed income space includes the voice broker community and other new electronic platform operators. currently, other competitors in electronic u.s. treasury benchmark trading are icap brokertec platform and dealerweb. for new entrants into the market, building a u.s. treasury benchmark trading business is complex, time-consuming and expensive. however, the current level of competition is significant and the operating environment remains challenging. listing services our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse mkt for listing of smaller companies. in addition, bats competes for etp listings and has announced an intention to list corporate equities, and currently another potential competitor has an exchange license application pending with the sec. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and international markets for listings by both u.s. and foreign companies that choose to list outside of their home country. for example, we compete for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the hong kong stock exchange. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, euronext, deutsche b rse and the nasdaq nordic exchanges. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities. information services data products. our data products business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. some of our major competitors for proprietary data products are ice, bats, icap, standard &amp; poor s, or s&amp;p, and dow jones. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse, nyse mkt, and bats-listed securities for those respective tape plans. in recent years, the operations of the consolidated tape plans have received heightened scrutiny from the industry, regulators and policy makers, including calls for competing tape plans. index licensing and services. our index licensing and services business faces competition from indexes created by a large number of providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. technology solutions corporate solutions. the landscape of corporate solutions competitors is varied and highly fragmented. in the investor relations sector, there are many regional competitors with few global providers. however, other exchanges have recently begun to partner or buy assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside their core listing services. the competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers that span distribution and targeting, monitoring and analytics, and a large number of regional or niche providers. in multimedia solutions, competition is highly fragmented and served by a number of firms who address various needs for enterprise buyers and typically offer managed or self-service capabilities. in governance, the competitive landscape is bifurcated with few competitors who serve corporate boards and deal 9 table of contents teams. we believe customers are increasingly looking for single source providers who can address a broad range of needs within a single platform. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the cost savings made possible by buying technology. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including ice and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. in the market for governance, risk and compliance solutions, there is a wide range of providers addressing the market. often, solutions are part of larger suites, such as those related to information technology management or general business management. the market needs are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment a necessity to stay relevant. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our sros and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our sros relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our sros to carry out their responsibilities under the securities exchange act of 1934, or exchange act. although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro own rules, impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an sro, the sec must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act. moreover , an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and three options markets in the u.s. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx sro license; and nasdaq psx and the nasdaq phlx options market pursuant to nasdaq phlx sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx, and/or nasdaq bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we also are subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. 10 table of contents section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company compliance with nasdaq financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on nasdaq to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer on-going compliance with nasdaq continued listing standards. regulatory audit. prior to our acquisition of boston stock exchange, or bse, bse was issued an administrative order by the sec in september 2007. pursuant to the order, bse agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party auditor to conduct a comprehensive audit of bse surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. bse also undertook to include the audit opinion in its annual report. since neither bse nor its successor entity nasdaq bx prepares an annual report, the report of the regulatory auditor, crowley labovitz consulting llc, which was dated march 24, 2015, is included below. nasdaq omx the exchange, inc. (the exchange ) retained crowley labovitz consulting llc ( clc ) as a third party auditor to fulfill an undertaking with the securities and exchange commission (the commission ), pursuant to an administrative order (the order ) originally issued against the boston stock exchange ( bse ) in september 2007. the order requires the third party auditor to provide an assessment of the exchange surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. we are writing at this time to provide our audit opinion as required by the order. as noted above, the order was originally issued against the bse. the order describes violations of customer priority rules by specialist participant firms on the bse trading floor between 1999 and 2004 on the now- defunct beacon trading system prior to the nasdaq omx group, inc. 2008 acquisition of the exchange. clc conducted the second of two third party comprehensive audits of the surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs of the exchange, as required by the order. the third party auditor is also required to evaluate: the adequacy of resources (including staffing and compensation) that the exchange has devoted to its surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs; the adequacy of the exchange rules in place to prevent and deter unlawful trading practices; whether the exchange practices are in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures, (ii) any outstanding commitments made by the exchange in relation to written recommendations made by the commission office of compliance inspections and examinations ( ocie ) or division of trading and markets ( trading and markets ) concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the order; and the exchange live testing processes of its automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems. we conducted fieldwork for the audit between july 2014 and february 2015 and today issued our confidential report on the audit to the exchange board of directors and to the directors of ocie and trading and markets, and to the director of the commission boston regional office (collectively, the commission officials ). this audit opinion is also being provided to the commission officials today. based on the scope of our audit and considerations of the assessments set forth in this report, and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the audit period, notwithstanding certain observations and recommendations for improvement that we have identified, including those set forth in this report, (a) the exchange policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to detect and deter violations of the 11 table of contents applicable federal securities laws and exchange rules relating to trading on the exchange; and (b) the exchange was in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures in these areas, (ii) any outstanding commitments by the exchange in connection with written recommendations made by ocie or trading and markets concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the order. in addition, we concluded that, during the audit period, (a) the exchange devoted adequate resources (including staffing and compensation) to its surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs; (b) the exchange rules in place were adequate to prevent and deter unlawful trading practices; (c) the exchange practices were in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures in these areas, (ii) any outstanding commitments by the exchange in connection with written recommendations made by ocie or trading and markets concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the order; and (d) the exchange live testing processes of its automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems. we note that the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the exchange policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate. that said, we also note that, because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and exchange rules relating to trading will not occur or go undetected. the conclusions expressed in this letter are as of the date hereof. we assume no obligation to update, revise, or supplement this letter, nor to communicate further with or advise you with respect to a matter covered herein or any change, development, occurrence, circumstance, or condition with respect of any matter. this letter is furnished solely to you in connection with the matters covered herein. this letter may not be used, relied upon, disclosed , circulated, published, communicated, made available, quoted or referred to, by or to any other person, for any other purpose, or in connection with any other agreement, document, transaction or matter without the prior written consent of the undersigned. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq u.s. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. execution access llc operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including espeed electronic trading platform for u.s. treasuries. npm securities, llc operates an ats involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under section 12 of the exchange act), including acting as the buyer and seller agent to facilitate private placement transactions on the ats. smtx, llc operates as the broker-dealer for secondmarket. finally, nasdaq options services, llc, which previously served as the routing broker for our u.s. options exchanges, became non-operational and terminated its exchange and clearinghouse memberships in march 2014, although it is still subject to certain regulatory requirements. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx, nasdaq phlx, bats-y exchange, bats-z exchange, chicago stock exchange, edga exchange, edgx exchange, finra, national stock exchange, nyse, nyse mkt and nyse arca. execution access is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 22 states and the u.s. virgin islands based on business requirements. additionally, execution access is a finra member organization. execution access operates a transparent central limit order book known as espeed to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access is an introducing broker for trades matched on the espeed trading platform. the trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. npm securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands. additionally, npm securities is a finra member organization. npm securities does not hold funds or securities. funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. the issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form. smtx is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 48 states and the district of columbia based on business requirements. additionally, smtx is a finra member organization. secondmarket provides the technological tools and website hosting on the secondmarket platform that issuers may use for administrative purposes, document execution, handling and storage, and to facilitate communications with participants of tender offers and merger and acquisition transactions. smtx role is to act as information agent with regard to onboarding potential participants, a depositary agent to receive tender of securities and transaction closing funds, and a paying agent to wire funds to participants at the closing. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules 12 table of contents cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for nasdaq execution services , execution access, npm securities and smtx. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities and smtx are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2015, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities and smtx were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq phlx and nasdaq bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. nasdaq serves as the processor for the utp plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in october 2015. nasdaq also serves as the administrator for the utp plan . as the processor , nasdaq performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the utp plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the exchange act and regulation nms. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, nasdaq has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. as the administrator, nasdaq manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members. regulation sci. effective as of november 20 15 , regulation systems compliance and integrity, or regulation sci, is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities 13 table of contents exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. we implemented an inter-disciplinary program to ensure compliance with regulation sci. new regulation sci policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was rolled out to ensure compliance. cftc regulation. we also operate nfx , a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or dodd-frank act, also resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the u.s. and their customers. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and european economic area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and market abuse. in mid-2012, emir, a regulation relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions, was adopted. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq clearing, like other european ccps, applied to reauthorize its ccp operations. nasdaq clearing was the first european ccp to be authorized as emir-compliant when the sfsa approved its application as a ccp under emir in 2014. mifid ii and mifir were adopted in 2014. these regulations will primarily affect our european trading businesses as they are implemented over the next few years. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir will be implemented through technical standards to be drafted by the european securities and markets authority and approved by the european commission. implementation is ongoing and both mifid ii and mifir will apply to the european union member states by early 2018. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq clearing role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq stockholm exchange activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq clearing holds the license as a ccp under emir. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in iceland, norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. 14 table of contents confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. in denmark and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of each exchange. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. employees as of december 31, 2015, nasdaq had 3,824 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.business.nasdaq.com . information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq website and click on investor relations, then under financial information click on sec filings. we use our website, www.business.nasdaq.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. item 1a . risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our data, index, corporate solutions and market technology products. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. data products revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. 15 table of contents a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for data products or technology products due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our data products, index licensing, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and demand for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing competitors. we also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. in addition, our listing, index licensing and technology solutions pricing is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trading outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position . 16 table of contents we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products and initiatives. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. a decline in trading and clearing volume and market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our data products business. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyberattack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. any system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain electronic trading platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. 17 table of contents the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our electronic trading platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our electronic trading platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our electronic trading platforms to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our technology solution businesses, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. on august 22, 2013, we experienced an outage in the exclusive processor system we maintain and operate on behalf of all exchanges that trade nasdaq stocks that resulted in a market-wide trading halt lasting approximately three hours. following this system outage, the sec and others evaluated all infrastructure that is critical to the national market system, including the processor systems. nasdaq, as technology provider to the utp operating committee, proposed, received approval for, and implemented measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. additionally, the utp operating committee recently approved nasdaq proposal to transfer the processor technology from its current enhanced platform to nasdaq inet platform. the migration, which is scheduled for completion in late 2016, will further enhance the resiliency of the processor systems. if, despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on a deal partner for transition services, including billing services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; 18 table of contents pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and europe. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future in response to global conditions and events. in the u.s., our markets and broker-dealer subsidiaries are regulated by the sec, finra and/or cftc and, in the nordics, baltics and u.k., our markets are subject to local and/or european union regulation. as a result, our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. we became a party to several legal and regulatory proceedings in 2012 and 2013 relating to the facebook ipo that occurred on may 18, 2012 . in 2013, the sec completed an investigation into the facebook matter and accepted our offer of settlement which included a monetary penalty and an agreement to implement certain measures aimed at preventing future violations of the exchange act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. in the future, we could be subject to sec or other regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec 19 table of contents approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sros. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure and technological oversight. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. in 2015, the sec created an equity market structure advisory committee to consider and opine on market structure issues relevant to nasdaq three u.s. equities markets. within the past year, the advisory committee held three meetings and discussed a wide range of issues, including order routing, best execution, access fees and maker-taker pricing, market data fees, and securities information processors. while these discussions may impact nasdaq business in the future, it is too early to determine what if any market structure changes the advisory committee will recommend, and which if any of those recommendations the commission will propose, adopt and implement. future mifid ii and mifir rules could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe could have a material impact on our business. in the u.s., the cftc and sec also will continue to take actions to fully implement the dodd-frank act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, the adoption of these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs and obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. we have defeated two challenges in federal appeals court but an additional challenge is currently pending at the sec. if the results of that challenge are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our data products revenues. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. it is expected that the future mifid ii rules will result in a definition of the term reasonable commercial basis. there is a risk that the final wording of this definition may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition any future actions by the 20 table of contents european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner that we do today thereby causing an adverse effect on our data products revenues. stagnation or decline in the ipo market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for ipos is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. although the market for initial public offerings over the past couple of years was strong, stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for ipos could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility, our 5.25% senior notes due 2018, our 3.875% senior notes due 2021, and our 4.25% senior notes due 2024 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our data products business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our data products, index, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2015, goodwill totaled approximately $5.4 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $2.0 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. 21 table of contents we assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity and cost method investments, and property and equipment for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. we estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows. considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. however, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements , we recorded a n indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $119 million in 2015 . in addition, we recorded asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 and $14 million in 2013. we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. for additional discussion of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including related impairment, ee goodwill and related impairment, indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, and other long-lived assets and related impairment, of critical accounting policies and estimates , of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results o f operations, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and valuation of other long-lived assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies , and note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. in particular, our u.s. business operations are heavily concentrated on the east coast, and our european business operations are heavily concentrated in stockholm. any event that affects either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. additionally, since borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. 22 table of contents we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald &amp; co. as of december 31, 2015, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. although w e believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2015 was approximately $2.4 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $490 million under our revolving credit facility. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our revolving credit facility. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. our revolving credit facility allows us to pay cash dividends on our common stock as long as certain leverage ratios are maintained. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority , this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk 23 table of contents of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of an sro. although our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges outsource a substantial portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, 24 table of contents we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, the middle east, africa and asia. our actual and planned expansion into lower cost locations, such as lithuania, india and the philippines, may increase operational risk and raises resiliency challenges. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the u.k., australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 25 table of contents if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq global risk steering committee, which is comprised of employees of nasdaq. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. since 2013, our board of directors has declared quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq board of directors. the board determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; 26 table of contents require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 201 5 when compared with the same period in 201 4 : revenues less transaction -based expenses increased $ 23 million, or 1 . 1 %, to $ 2 , 090 million in 201 5 , compared with $ 2 , 067 million in 201 4 , reflecting an operational increase of $ 123 million and a n un favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 100 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to an: increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses of $48 million, from both u.s. and european cash equity trading; increase in listing services revenues of $38 million; increase in data products revenues of $29 million, primarily from u.s. data products; increase in index licensing and services revenues of $25 million; and increase in market technology revenues of $16 million, partially offset by a; decrease in ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses of $24 million; and a decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses of $10 million, primarily from u.s. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues. operating expenses increased $ 57 million, or 4 . 3 %, to $ 1 , 370 million in 201 5 , compared with $ 1,313 million in 201 4 , reflecting an operational increase of $ 133 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 76 million. the increase in operational expenses was primarily due to restructuring charges, an increase in compensation and benefit expense and higher computer operations and data communications expense, partially offset by lower merger and strategic initiatives expense, lower occupancy expense, and a decrease in general, administrative and other expense. interest expense de creased $ 6 million, or 5 . 1 %, to $ 111 million in 201 5 , compared with $ 117 million in 201 4 , primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million . asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($38 million ) and certain technology assets ($11 million ). income tax provision increased $22 million, or 12.2%, in 2015 compared with 2014, primarily due to higher income before income taxes in 2015 compared with 2014. also, the lower income tax provision in 2014 was attributable to a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits . these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. 34 table of contents excluding income recognized from our equity method investment in the options clearing corporation, or occ, restructuring charges, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, asset impairment charges , merger and strategic initiatives expense, and other items that are not reflective of our core business performance, net of taxes, non-gaap consolidated net income attributable to n asdaq for the year ended december 31, 201 5 was $ 581 million , or $ 3 . 39 per diluted share, compared with $ 542 million, or $ 3 . 13 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 201 4 . see non-gaap financial measures below for further discussion. outlook over the past few years we have transitioned from predominately a u.s. equity exchange operator to a globally, diversified portfolio of businesses that offer trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services across six continents. during 2015, we continued to demonstrate our ability to invest in our future, make strategic acquisitions that deliver for our clients and shareholders and demonstrate solid organic growth across the franchise. our growth strategy continues to include identifying product line extensions within our core business units, developing adjacent opportunities within our core businesses and identifying acquisitions that both complement our strengths and offer opportunities for both revenue and expense synergies. we invested in several complementary acquisitions and launched a number of important organic initiatives during 2015 that we expect to benefit us far into the future. during 2015, we acquired dwa which added model-based strategies and analysis to our robust index portfolio and further strengthened our position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. we also acquired secondmarket through npm to expand our offerings for private companies to manage their equity and to provide liquidity events to their employees and investors. in february 2016, we completed the previously announced acquisitions of chi-x canada and marketwired. the acquisition of chi-x canada provides nasdaq with direct access to the canadian equities market. the marketwired acquisition strengthens our corporate solutions business offerings by adding social media targeting tools and analytics. it also enables us to accelerate our strategy to develop a robust and integrated platform for communications professionals. collectively, these acquisitions broaden our existing product offerings in ways we expect to significantly benefit our customers and investors. in 2015, we also introduced important organic initiatives which we believe will benefit our future growth. in may 2015, we announced plans for an enterprise-wide initiative around the blockchain technology. two initial applications, nasdaq linq and a proxy voting application in estonia, were announced during the year. another 2015 initiative was the launch of nfx. with nfx, nasdaq entered into the energy derivatives markets in the u.s. nfx market share in our targeted energy derivatives contracts was growing through year end 2015 and we continue to see growth in early 2016. in addition, in early 2016 our corporate solutions business released the ir insight solution. through these initiatives, consistent with our long-term strategy, we continued to leverage our technology strength and offer new products that expand our customer base and strengthen our relationships with all our customers. during 2015, market volatility was higher than in the previous two years, as economic and political uncertainty continued to weigh on the global economy and the debate over future fiscal and monetary policy in the u.s. and europe continued. while the consensus economic view is that the financial crisis has passed, robust economic growth has yet to develop, particularly in europe, and the markets are quick to recall the recent past at every hint of slowing growth. we believe that our diversified businesses position us well to compete in a challenging market environment. if increased levels of market volatility persist in 2016, many of the asset classes within our market services segment and our data business will continue to benefit. the espeed business operated in a challenging market environment during 2015 as u.s. treasury volumes remained low and competitive pressures increased. we continue to offer new products in both espeed and the other products that comprise our ficc business and we expect that, as market conditions improve, the ficc business will contribute to our growth. growth in our listings services, corporate solutions, market technology and the index licensing and services businesses depend on a positive economic outlook. volatility in the markets will have a negative impact on the pace of ipos and consequently on the opportunities for revenue growth in our listing services and corporate solutions businesses. continued declines in oil prices may negatively impact the economics of oil-exporting nations, some of which have exchanges buying our technology. if market volatility proves to be the precursor of slower economic growth, then revenues in our listing services, information services and technology solutions segments will grow at a slower pace. during 2016, we expect changes in both the competitive and regulatory environments. in the u.s., in late 2015, the national stock exchange reactivated its trading business, iex filed to become an exchange, and new options exchanges were launched or announced. while the willingness of new entrants to commence operations in the trading industry can be taken as a positive sign of good health in the trading industry, as these organizations implement their strateg ies , they have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face. european regulators are currently moving forward on a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. the implementation of emir is changing the way we structure and operate the nordic clearinghouse. mifid ii, as well as the new regulations in mifir, will change the way our trading business operate and will create both challenges in our existing 35 table of contents businesses , as well as new opportunities for growth. full implementation of these regulations may be delayed and consequently create an uncertain environment for our businesses. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 201 6 , driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe as regulations resulting from legislation in the aftermath of the financial crisis continue to be implemented . these changes could result in the continued fragmentation of cash equity markets , and trading could continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems, particularly in the u.s. conversely, trading in otc derivatives could begin to move onto exchanges and other execution facilities . we believe that our future will continue to be determined by our ability to challenge the status quo and our ability to allocate resources in strategic areas which will yield attractive returns. over the next five years, we expect that our market services and listing services segments will continue to experience organic growth at roughly the same pace as growth in gdp in the countries where we operate. our information services and technology solutions segments are expected to outperform our traditional exchange businesses as our strategic portfolio of businesses advances our clients objectives and thereby improves our competitive position . we also believe that our organic research and development initiatives, such as nfx and the b lockchain based initiatives, and our complementary acquisitions, such as dwa, offer significant and material revenue growth and could have a transformative effect on their respective industries. to the extent that recent economic and market volatility do not become excessive, the year ahead may be positive for our business drivers and our operations. we believe that our continu ed focus on meeting our cost, revenue and technology objectives will enable us to benefit from any improving economic conditions in the future . we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments w e manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions. see note 1 , organization and nature of operations , and note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. sources of revenues and transaction-b ased expenses see revenue recognition and transaction- b ased expenses, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our sources of revenues and transaction-based expenses. 36 table of contents nasdaq operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, listing services, information services and technology solutions segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 market services equity derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options total industry average daily volume (in millions) 14.8 15.3 14.8 nasdaq phlx matched market share 16.7% 16.0% 18.2% the nasdaq options market matched market share 7.7% 10.0% 8.7% nasdaq bx options market matched market share 0.8% 0.9% 1.0% total matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 25.2% 26.9% 27.9% nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic options and futures total average daily volume options and futures contracts (1) 380,944 358,141 390,816 cash equity trading total u.s.-listed securities total industry average daily share volume (in billions) 6.91 6.41 6.19 matched share volume (in billions) 327.7 326.0 292.9 matched market share executed on nasdaq 15.8% 17.1% 15.6% matched market share executed on nasdaq bx 2.0% 2.5% 2.5% matched market share executed on nasdaq psx 1.0% 0.6% 0.7% total matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 18.8% 20.2% 18.8% market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 31.8% 30.3% 33.5% total market share (2) 50.6% 50.5% 52.3% nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic securities average daily number of equity trades executed on nasdaq's exchanges 430,185 351,772 309,967 total average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 5.1 $ 4.8 $ 4.3 total market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges 68.5% 71.5% 68.6% fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing total u.s. fixed income u.s. fixed income notional trading volume (in billions) (3) $ 29,234 $ 37,594 $ 17,891 nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic fixed income total average daily volume fixed income contracts 108,708 98,948 128,290 nasdaq commodities power contracts cleared (twh) (4) 1,496 1,564 1,680 listing services initial public offerings nasdaq 143 189 126 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic 78 47 14 total new listings nasdaq (5) 274 327 239 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic (6) 91 72 34 number of listed companies nasdaq (7) 2,859 2,782 2,637 exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic (8) 852 792 758 information services number of licensed exchange traded products 222 166 151 etp assets under management tracking nasdaq indexes (in billions) (9) $ 114 $ 99 $ 92 technology solutions market technology order intake (in millions) (10) $ 271 $ 320 $ 346 total order value (in millions) (11) $ 788 $ 716 $ 678 37 table of contents (1) includes finnish option contracts traded on eurex. (2) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trade report facility. ( 3 ) for the year ended december 31, 2013, u.s. fixed income notional trading volume represents trading volume from july 2013 to december 2013. (4) transactions executed on nasdaq commodities or otc and reported for clearing to nasdaq commodities measured by twh. (5) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etps. (6) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq first north. (7) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etps. (8) represents companies listed on the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq first north at period end. (9) represents assets under management in licensed etps. (10) total contract value of orders signed during the period. (11) represents total contract value of signed orders that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue, as discussed in note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements, represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. 38 table of contents segment operating results the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) market services $ 2,084 $ 2,229 $ 2,072 (6.5)% 7.6% transaction-based expenses (1,313) (1,433) (1,316) (8.4)% 8.9% market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 771 796 756 (3.1)% 5.3% listing services 264 238 228 10.9% 4.4% information services 512 473 436 8.2% 8.5% technology solutions 543 560 475 (3.0)% 17.9% total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,090 $ 2,067 $ 1,895 1.1% 9.1% of our 2015 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,090 million, 36.9% was from our market services segment, 12.6% was from our listing services segment, 24.5% was from our information services segment and 26.0% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2014 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,067 million, 38.5% was from our market services segment, 11.5% was from our listing services segment, 22.9% was from our information services segment and 27.1% was from our technology solutions segment. of our 2013 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 39.9% was from our market services segment, 12.0% was from our listing services segment, 23.0% was from our information services segment and 25.1% was from our technology solutions segment. 39 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 432 $ 525 $ 514 (17.7)% 2.1% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (223) (285) (259) (21.8)% 10.0% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (21) (32) (33) (34.4)% (3.0)% equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 188 208 222 (9.6)% (6.3)% cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,315 1,335 1,212 (1.5)% 10.1% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (756) (780) (743) (3.1)% 5.0% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (306) (332) (279) (7.8)% 19.0% cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 253 223 190 13.5% 17.4% fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues 98 130 111 (24.6)% 17.1% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (4) - - # - brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (3) (4) (2) (25.0)% # fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 91 126 109 (27.8)% 15.6% access and broker services revenues 239 239 235 - 1.7% total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 771 $ 796 $ 756 (3.1)% 5.3% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $19 million in 2015, $ 28 million in 201 4 and $ 27 million in 201 3 . section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses . (2) includes section 31 fees of $282 million in 2015, $ 306 million in 201 4 and $ 243 million in 201 3 . section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses . market services revenues less transaction-based expense decrease d in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 201 3 . the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in both ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses, partially offset by an increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in both cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses and ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses, partially offset by a decline in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses. market services revenues included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $47 million in 2015 and $ 12 million in 2014. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in u.s. gross revenue capture, a decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges, a decrease in u.s. industry trading volumes, a decline in section 31 pass-through fee revenue and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million, partially offset by an increase in trading volumes in european stock option and index futures products. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased both in 2015 compared with 2014 and in 2014 compared with 2013. t he decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges, a decrease in u.s. industry trading volumes, declines in u.s. average net capture and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million, partially offset by an increase in trading volumes in european stock options and index futures products. the 40 table of contents decrease in 2014 was primarily due to a decline in u.s. average net capture, a decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 3 million, partially offset by an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes . section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees were $19 million in 2015, $28 million in 2014 and $27 million in 2013. the decrease in 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to lower rates and lower dollar value traded. the increase in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in overall rebate capture rates, a decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges and a decrease in u.s. industry trading volumes. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in overall rebate capture rates and an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decrease in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased both in 2015 compared with 2014 and in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to lower section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in routing costs due to a decline in volume routed. the decrease in 2014 was primarily due to a decrease in routing costs due to lower volume routed, partially offset by an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges, a decline in section 31 pass-through fee revenue, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million, partially offset by higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes and higher u.s. gross revenue capture. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenue, an increase in overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges, and higher industry trading volumes, partially offset by lower u.s. gross revenue capture and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses increased both in 2015 compared with 2014 and in 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes and higher average net capture, partially offset by a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges, higher industry trading volumes, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees were $282 million in 2015, $306 million in 2014 and $243 million in 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to lower sec fee rates, partially offset by higher dollar value traded. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq trading systems, partially offset by lower pass-through fee rates. for nasdaq and nasdaq psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges and a decline in rebate capture, partially offset by an increase in u.s. industry trading volumes. the in crease in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges and higher u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decline in rebate capture. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decline in section 31 pass-through fees. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees, partially offset by a decrease in routing costs due to lower volume routed. 41 table of contents fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues fixed income , currency and commodities trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to volume declines in u.s. fixed income and european commodities products, a decrease related to a scheduled contract termination of an espeed technology licensing customer, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million, partially offset by lower nasdaq nlx trading incentives. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to transaction fees generated from our espeed electronic benchmark u.s. treasury trading platform that was acquired in june 2013 and an increase in other revenues and fees primarily due to higher clearing revenues, partial ly offset by a decline in short-term futures and options interest product revenues due to lower volume, the impact of nasdaq nlx trading incentives and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 5 million. access and broker services revenues access and broker services revenues were flat in 2015 compared with 2014 as an increase in customer demand for network connectivity was offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. access and broker services revenues increased in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to increased revenues from the addition of hosting revenues from espeed which was acquired in june 2013, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million . listing services the following table shows revenues from our listing services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) listing services revenues $ 264 $ 238 $ 228 10.9% 4.4% listing services revenues increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in u.s. listing services revenues , partially offset by a decrease in european listing services revenues. the increase in u.s. listing services revenues was primarily due to an increase in annual listing fees as a result of pricing actions and an increase in the number of listed companies. the number of nasdaq listed companies was 2,859 as of december 31, 2015 compared with 2,782 as of december 31, 2014. european listing services revenues decreased in 2015 primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million, partially offset by an increase in the number of listed companies and higher annual fees. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in both u.s. and european listing services revenues. the increase in u.s. listing services revenues for 2014 was primarily due to increases in both initial listing and annual listing fees reflecting an increase in new listings and the number of listed companies. the number of nasdaq listed companies was 2,782 as of december 31, 2014 compared with 2,637 as of december 31, 2013. partially offsetting the increase in u.s. listing services revenues in 2014 was a decrease in listing of additional shares fees . the increase in european listing services revenues in 2014 was driven by an increase in the number of listed companies and higher market capitalization, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million . information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) information services revenues: data products revenues $ 399 $ 384 $ 362 3.9% 6.1% index licensing and services revenues 113 89 74 27.0% 20.3% total information services revenues $ 512 $ 473 $ 436 8.2% 8.5% information services revenues increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013 due to increases in both data products and index licensing and services revenues, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million in 2015 and $2 million in 2014. data products revenues data products revenues increased in both 2015 compared to 2014 and 2014 compared to 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of dwa in january 2015, higher shared tape revenue plans, and higher customer demand for u.s. proprietary data products, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher customer demand for u.s. proprietary data products, select pricing 42 table of contents initiatives, and an increase in revenues due to the acquisition of espeed, which was completed in june 2013, partially offset by lower audit collections and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. index licensing and services revenues index licensing and services revenues increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013 due to an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with nasdaq-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses. the increase in 2015 was also due to our acquisition of dwa in january 2015. see acquisition of dorsey, wright &amp; associates, llc, and acquisition of espeed for trading of u.s. treasuries, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our dwa and espeed acquisitions. technology solutions the following table shows revenues from our technology solutions segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) technology solutions revenues: corporate solutions revenues $ 298 $ 314 $ 230 (5.1)% 36.5% market technology revenues 245 246 245 (0.4)% 0.4% total technology solutions revenues $ 543 $ 560 $ 475 (3.0)% 17.9% technology solutions revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in c orporate olutions revenues. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in c orporate olutions revenues. technology olutions revenues included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $26 million in 2015 and $ 8 million in 2014. corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decline in the demand for our investor relations products and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to the acquisition of the tr corporate businesses completed in may 2013, an increase in the number of clients utilizing directors desk, expanding customer utilization of globenewswire products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 3 million. see acquisition of the investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses of thomson reuters, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. market technology revenues market technology revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million and lower software license and support revenues, partially offset by operational increases in software as a service revenues and change request revenues, reflecting increased customer demand. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to operational increases in software as a service revenues, software license and support revenues , and advisory revenues reflecting increased customer demand, p artially offset by a decrease in change request revenues and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 11 million. total order value as of december 31, 2015, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $788 million. total order value as of december 31, 2014 was $716 million and was $678 million as of december 31, 2013. as of december 31, 2015, m arket t echnology deferred revenue, included in the total t echnology olutions deferred revenue of $ 199 million , represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of m arket t echnology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2016 $ 234 43 table of contents 2017 193 2018 128 2019 85 2020 73 2021 and thereafter 75 total $ 788 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 590 $ 588 $ 539 0.3% 9.1% marketing and advertising 28 32 30 (12.5)% 6.7% depreciation and amortization 138 137 122 0.7% 12.3% professional and contract services 148 157 151 (5.7)% 4.0% computer operations and data communications 107 92 82 16.3% 12.2% occupancy 85 110 98 (22.7)% 12.2% regulatory 27 27 30 - (10.0)% merger and strategic initiatives 10 81 22 (87.7)% # general, administrative and other 65 89 80 (27.0)% 11.3% restructuring charges 172 - 9 # # voluntary accommodation program - - 44 - # total operating expenses $ 1,370 $ 1,313 $ 1,207 4.3% 8.8% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses increased $57 million in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased $106 million in 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 reflects an operational increase of $133 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $76 million. the operational increase in 2015 was mainly due to restructuring charges, an increase in compensation and benefits expense, and higher computer operations and data communications expense , partially offset by lower merger and strategic initiatives expense, lower occupancy expense, and a decrease in general, administrative and other expense. the increase in 2014 reflects an operational increase of $11 6 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million . the operational increase in 2014 was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, higher occupancy expense reflecting a sublease loss reserve recorded in 2014, and a loss on debt extinguishment. partially offsetting these increases were expenses recorded during 2013 consisting of restructuring charges, expense related to our voluntary accommodation program, and $10 million related to an sec matter. compensation and benefits expense increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs associated with increased financial performance and increased compensation costs resulting from our acquisition of dwa in january 2015. partially offsetting these increases was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $38 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an operational increase of $ 57 million , partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the operational increase primarily reflects additional salary expense resulting from our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, as well as higher share-based compensation expense due to the timing of the issuance of our 2013 equity awards. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 3 , 8 24 employees at december 31, 2015 from 3,687 at december 31, 2014. headcount was 3,365 at december 31, 2013. marketing and advertising expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to de creased advertising spend . the increase in 2014 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers and our rebranding initiative. depreciation and amortization expense increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets relating to the acquisition of dwa in january 2015, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with assets placed in service and software development . partially offsetting these increases was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets, primarily relating to the acquisitions of the tr 44 table of contents corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with assets placed in service and software development . partially offsetting these increases was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $ 2 million. professional and contract services expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to revenue-related costs incurred as a result of our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses, costs incurred for legal expenses and the launch of new initiatives . the revenue-related costs are primarily due to the production and delivery of webcast events as well as other events and services. computer operations and data communications expense increased in both 2015 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in value added tax, or vat, reflecting a charge for the reversal of previously recorded vat receivables no longer deemed collectible of $12 million and higher software lease and maintenance costs, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher software development expenditures primarily associated with our technology solutions businesses and additional expense as a result of our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed. occupancy expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 reflects lower facility and rent costs due to our restructuring activities and lower costs resulting from services no longer needed under the transition services agreement that was entered into in connection with our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. also contributing to the decrease in 2015 was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to an $11 million sublease loss reserve charge on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $10 million in 2015, $81 million in 2014, and $22 million in 2013. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2015 was primarily related to certain strategic initiatives and our acquisition of dwa. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2014 was primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party . merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2013 primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed. the costs incurred in 2013 were partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party and the remeasurement of a contingent purchase price liability related to the bwise acquisition due to changes in the anticipated performance of bwise. general, administrative and other expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 and increased in 2014 compared with 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a lower provision for bad debts due to better collection results, a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million, and a loss on extinguishment of debt recorded in 2014. in addition, i n march 2015, we recorded a loss reserve of $31 million for litigation arising from the facebook ipo in may 2012. the reserve was intended to cover the estimated amount of a settlement of class-action litigation initiated on behalf of investors in facebook common stock on the date of its ipo. the reserve also covered the cost of re-opening nasdaq voluntary accommodation program to allow any nasdaq member that did not file for compensation in 2013 to submit a claim during the second quarter of 2015, subject to the conditions and limitations that were applicable to claims filed in 2013. the re-opened accommodation program is now closed. during the second half of 2015, we recorded an insurance recovery which offset the loss reserve that was recorded in march 2015. the increase in general, administrative and other expense in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to additional expense associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013, an $11 million loss on extinguishment of debt in 2014, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million . partially offsetting this increase was $10 million of expense rela ted to an sec matter incurred in 2013. restructuring charges were $172 million in 2015 and $9 million in 2013. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2015 and 2013. voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million in 2013 relates to the one-time program for voluntary accommodation to qualifying members of up to $62 million, for which a liability was recorded when the program was approved by the sec in march 2013. this program expanded the pool available to compensate members of the nasdaq stock market for qualified losses arising directly from the system issues experienced with the facebook ipo that occurred on may 18, 2012. after claims were reviewed, our liability was reduced to $44 million and payment of valid claims totaling $44 million was made in the fourth quarter of 2013. non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) interest income $ 4 $ 6 $ 9 (33.3)% (33.3)% 45 table of contents interest expense (111) (117) (111) (5.1)% 5.4% net interest expense (107) (111) (102) (3.6)% 8.8% gain on sale of investment security - - 30 - # asset impairment charges - (49) (14) # # net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees 17 - (2) # # total non-operating expenses $ (90) $ (160) $ (88) (43.8)% 81.8% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total non-operating expenses were $90 million in 2015 compared with $160 million in 2014 and $88 million in 2013. total non-operating expenses for 2015 included net interest expense of $107 million and net income from unconsolidated investees of $17 million. total non-operating expenses for 2014 included net interest expense of $111 million and asset impairment charges of $49 million. total non-operating expenses for 2013 primarily included net interest expense of $102 million and asset impairment charges of $14 million, partially offset by a gain of $30 million on the sale of an available-for-sale investment security. interest income interest income decreased in both 201 5 compared with 2014 and 2014 compared with 2013. the decreases were primarily due to lower average cash and financial investments balances . interest expense the following table shows our interest expense: year ended december 31, percentage change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) interest expense $ 106 $ 110 $ 101 (3.6)% 8.9% accretion of debt issuance costs and debt discount 4 4 6 - (33.3)% other bank and investment-related fees 1 3 4 (66.7)% (25.0)% total interest expense $ 111 $ 117 $ 111 (5.1)% 5.4% interest expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. interest expense increased in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to the issuance of our 2021 notes in june 2013 and the issuance of our 2024 notes in may 2014, partially offset by the early extinguishment of our 4.00% senior notes in june 2014, the repayment of our 2.50% convertible senior notes in august 2013, and lower outstanding balances on our 2011 credit facility. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. gain on sale of investment security in the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold an available-for-sale investment security for $48 million and recorded a gain of $30 million on the sale, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. asset impairment charges asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 related to a $38 million non-cash intangible asset impairment charge associated with customer relationships and an $11 million non-cash asset impairment charge related to certain technology assets . asset impairment charges of $14 million in 2013 related to non-cash intangible asset impairment charges related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($7 million). see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the intangible asset impairment charges in 2014 and 2013. net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees was $17 million income in 2015 and a $2 million loss in 2013. net income from unconsolidated investees for 2015 was primarily due to income recognized from our equity method investment in occ. we were not able to determine what our share of occ income was for the year ended december 31, 2014 until the first quarter of 2015, when occ financial statements were made available to us. as a result, we recorded other income of $13 million in 2015 relating to our share of occ income for the year ended december 31, 2014. 46 table of contents see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our investment in occ. tax matters nasdaq income tax provision was $ 203 million in 201 5 compared with $1 81 million in 201 4 and $ 2 1 6 million in 201 3 . the overall effective tax rate was 3 2 . 2 % in 201 5 , 3 0 . 5 % in 201 4 and 36.3% in 201 3 . the higher tax rate in 2015 when compared to 2014, and the lower effective tax rate in 2014 when compared to 2013, was primarily due to a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits in 2014. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. see note 10, "income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our tax matters. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. in addition, since management does not consider intangible asset amortization expense for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources, such expenses have been shown as a non-gaap adjustment. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to nasdaq for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our core operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily related to the following: (i) income from our equity method investment in occ of $13 million. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion , (ii) restructuring charges of $172 million. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion, (iii) amortization expense of acquired intangible assets of $62 million, (iv) reversal of previously recorded vat receivables no longer deemed collectible of $12 million, (v) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $10 million primarily related to certain strategic initiatives and our acquisition of dwa, and (vi) adjustment to the income tax provision of $90 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily related to the following: (i) special legal expense of $2 million , (ii) amortization expense of acquired intangible assets of $69 million, (iii) loss on extinguishment of debt of $11 million reflecting $9 million related to the early extinguishment of our 4.00% senior notes in june 2014 47 table of contents and $2 million related to the refinancing of our 2011 credit facility , (iv) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $81 million primarily related to our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013 and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this charge is offset in item (vii ) below , (v) asset impairment charges of $49 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and certain technology assets , (vi) sublease loss reserve charge of $11 million on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity , and (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $ 9 7 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily related to the following: (i) restructuring charges of $9 million, (ii) special legal expense of $3 million , (iii) amortization expense of acquired intangible assets of $63 million, (iv) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $22 million reflecting $45 million of merger and strategic initiative costs primarily associated with our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this credit is offset in item (ix) below, (v) asset impairment charges of $14 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and a certain trade name, ( vi ) voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million, (vi i ) gain on sale of investment security of $30 million related to the sale of an available-for-sale investment security , (viii) expenses paid with respect to an sec matter of $ 10 million , and (ix) adjustment to the income tax provision of $ 3 3 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments . the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 428 $ 2.50 $ 414 $ 2.39 $ 385 $ 2.25 non-gaap adjustments: income from occ equity investment (13) (0.08) - - - - restructuring charges 172 1.00 - - 9 0.05 special legal expense - - 2 0.01 3 0.02 amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 62 0.36 69 0.40 63 0.37 reversal of value added tax refund 12 0.07 - - - - extinguishment of debt - - 11 0.07 - - merger and strategic initiatives 10 0.06 81 0.47 22 0.13 asset impairment charges - - 49 0.28 14 0.08 voluntary accommodation program - - - - 44 0.26 gain on sale of investment security - - - - (30) (0.18) sec matter - - - - 10 0.06 sublease loss reserve - - 11 0.07 - - other - - 2 - (3) (0.02) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (90) (0.52) (97) (0.56) (33) (0.19) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 153 0.89 128 0.74 99 0.58 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 581 $ 3.39 $ 542 $ 3.13 $ 484 $ 2.83 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 171,283,271 173,018,849 171,266,146 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. in addition to disclosing non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted e arnings per share, we also have provided non-gaap operating income which is used in the disclosure of foreign currency exchange rate risk. see foreign currency exchange rate risk, of item 7a . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, for further discussion. 48 table of contents liquidity and capital resources historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. as part of the acquisition of espeed, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock annually which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. in november 2014, we entered into a $750 million senior unsecured five-year credit facility which matures on november 25, 2019, or the 2014 credit facility . the 2014 credit facility consists of a $750 million revolving credit commitment (with sublimits for non-dollar borrowings, swingline borrowings and letters of credit). as of december 31, 2015, availability under the revolving credit commitment was $490 million. see 2014 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations and availability under our revolving credit commitment will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents , receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses , can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $340 million at december 31, 2015, compared with $420 million at december 31, 2014, a decrease of $80 million. current asset balance changes de creased working capital by $ 116 million, with de creases in cash and cash equivalents and receivables, net, partially offset by in crease in default funds and margin deposits, financial investments, at fair value, deferred tax assets, restricted cash and other current assets . current liability balance changes in creased working capital by $ 36 million due to decreases in deferred revenue, accounts payable and accrued expenses, section 31 fees payable to the sec and deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by increases in default funds and margin deposits, accrued personnel costs and other current liabilities . principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 301 $ 427 restricted cash 56 49 financial investments, at fair value 201 174 total financial assets $ 558 $ 650 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2015, our 49 table of contents cash and cash equivalents of $301 million were primarily invested in bank deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2015 decreased $126 million from december 31, 2014 primarily due to net cash used in investing and financing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities. ee cash flow analysis below for further discussion. as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, current restricted cash included cash held for regulatory purposes and other requirements and is not available for general use. current restricted cash was $56 million as of december 31, 2015 and $49 million as of december 31, 2014, an increase of $7 million. the increase is primarily due to restricted cash held at secondmarket, partially offset by lower restricted cash requirements in our nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic operations. we acquired secondmarket in the fourth quarter of 2015. the restricted cash held at secondmarket relates to customer funds held in connection with privately negotiated securities transactions for the exclusive benefit of the customer . current restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $105 million as of december 31, 2015 and $83 million as of december 31, 2014. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $196 million as of december 31, 2015 and $344 million as of december 31, 2014. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash dividends on common stock in june, september and december 2015, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share on our outstanding common stock, and in march 2015, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share on our outstanding common stock. see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $201 million as of december 31, 2015 and $174 million as of december 31, 2014 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities. of these securities, $ 166 m illion as of december 31, 2015 and $159 million as of december 31, 2014 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for clearing operations at nasdaq clearing. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading investment securities. debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) 5.25% senior unsecured notes (1) january 2018 $ 368 $ 368 $750 million revolving credit commitment (2) november 2019 258 119 5.55% senior unsecured notes (1) january 2020 597 596 3.875% senior unsecured notes (1) june 2021 646 720 4.25% senior unsecured notes (1) june 2024 495 494 total long-term debt obligations $ 2,364 $ 2,297 (1) net of unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs. (2) net of unamortized debt issuance costs. in addition to our $750 million revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities related to our nasdaq clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity. in addition, at december 31, 2014, we had credit facilities to provide for default protection . at december 31, 2015, credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $202 50 table of contents million in available liquidity , none of which was utilized. at december 31, 201 4 , credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $ 236 million ($ 197 million in available liquidity and $ 39 million for default protection), of which $ 7 million was util ized. at december 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requiremen ts we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 201 5 , our required regulatory capital consisted of $ 166 million of highly rated european government debt securities that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access , npm securities and smtx are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. the following table summarizes the capital requirements for our broker-dealer subsidiaries as of december 31, 201 5: broker-dealer subsidiaries total net capital required minimum net capital excess capital (in millions) nasdaq execution services $ 6.8 $ 0.3 $ 6.5 execution access 45.5 0.4 45.1 npm securities 0.3 - 0.3 smtx 0.4 0.3 0.1 other capital requirements nasdaq execution services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with occ. cash flow analysis the following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 percentage change (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 685 $ 687 (0.3)% investing activities (441) (155) # financing activities (362) (485) (25.4)% effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8) (18) (55.6)% net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (126) 29 # cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 427 398 7.3% cash and cash equivalents at the end of period $ 301 $ 427 (29.5)% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. net cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015: net income of $427 million, plus: adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of $273 million comprised primarily of $138 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $136 million in non-cash restructuring charges, and $68 million of share-based compensation expense, partially offset by $45 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments, net income from unconsolidated investees of $17 million and deferred income taxes of $14 million. 51 table of contents decrease in rece ivables, net of $55 million primarily due to the timing of collections and activity. increase in other liabilities of $6 0 million primarily reflecting customer funds held in connection with privately negotiated securities transactions at secondmarket , an increase in accrued taxes and an increase in our restructuring reserve . increase in accrued personnel costs of $33 million primarily due to the 2015 accrual, partially offset by the payment of our 2014 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2015. partially offset by a n : increase in other assets of $50 million primarily reflecting our equity method investment in occ , restricted cash held at secondmarket , and an increase in deferred costs associated with the timing and delivery of technology projects. decrease in deferred revenue of $49 million mainly related to our technology solutions businesses. decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $38 million primarily reflecting the timing of trade payables. decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $26 million primarily due to lower sec fee rates and a decline in equity and options matched market share executed on nasdaq exchanges. the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2014: net income of $413 million, plus: adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of $275 million comprised primarily of $137 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $62 million of share-based compensation expense, $49 million of asset impairment charges, other reconciling items of $28 million, which primarily reflects bad debt expense , and non-c ash merger and strategic initiatives expense of $20 million, partially offset by $15 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments. increase in deferred revenue of $64 million mainly related to our corporate solutions and market technology businesses. increase in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $42 million primarily due to higher volumes, contract value and sec fee rates . partially offset by an: increase in other assets of $55 million primarily reflecting an increase in deferred costs associated with the timing and delivery of technology projects, partially offset by a decrease in restricted cash held for regulatory purposes. decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $40 million reflecting the timing of payments and a decrease in interest payable related to our debt obligations. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily consisted of our acquisition of dwa in january 2015 of $226 million, our purchases of trading and available-for-sale investment securities of $384 million, a capital contribution of $30 million in connection with our equity method investment in occ, and purchases of property and equipment of $133 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities of $319 million and proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale investment securities of $29 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities and available-for-sale investment securities of $303 million and purchases of property and equipment of $140 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities of $281 million and proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale investment securities of $17 million . net cash provided by (used in) financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily consisted of $377 million related to the repurchase our common stock, $369 million of cash used in connection with the repayment of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility, $149 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock, partially offset by $506 million from the partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility to partially fund our acquisition of dwa and other general corporate purposes. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily consisted of $970 million of cash used in connection with the repayment of debt obligations, which consisted of a $408 million payment to repay in full our 4.00% senior notes in june 2014 , a $349 million payment to repay in full our $450 million funded term loan, and the repayment of the total amount drawn on our 2011 revolving credit commitment of $213 million, which included $118 million of proceeds received during the year ended december 31, 2014. in addition, cash used in financing activities included $178 million related to the repurchase of our common stock and $98 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. partially offsetting these decreases were net proceeds received of $735 million which consisted of $494 million from the issuance of our 2024 notes, $118 million from the partial utilization of the 52 table of contents revolving credit commitment of our 2011 credit facility and $123 million from the partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility. for further discussion of our dwa acquisition, see note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our debt obligations, see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our share repurchase program, see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2015: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 2,934 $ 104 $ 570 $ 1,009 $ 1,251 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 320 78 92 75 75 other obligations (3) 12 11 1 - - total $ 3,266 $ 193 $ 663 $ 1,084 $ 1,326 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2015, an interest rate of 2.22% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2014 credit facility. all other debt obligations were primarily calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2015. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) other obligations primarily consist of a potential future escrow agreement payment related to a prior acquisition as well as other service agreement payments. non-cash contingent consideration as part of the espeed purchase price consideration, we have agreed to future annual issuances of 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. off-balance sheet arrangements for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; note 17, leases, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our lease commitments; and note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of : guarantees issued and credit facilities available; other guarantees; non-cash contingent consideration; occ; chi-x canada; marketwired ; escrow agreement ; routing brokerage activities ; litigation; and 53 table of contents tax audits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations which are discussed below. financial investments as of december 31, 2015, our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2015, the fair value of this portfolio would have declined by $6 million. debt obligations as of december 31, 2015, substantially all of our debt obligations are fixed-rate obligations. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of borrowings under our $750 million revolving credit commitment, as the interest rate on this facility has a variable interest rate. as of december 31, 2015, the principal amount outstanding under this facility was $260 million. a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on this facility would increase interest expense by approximately $3 million based on borrowings as of december 31, 2015. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk. the table below sets forth our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014. due to our restructuring charges and other non-gaap charges discussed below, we have also provided operating income and percentage of operating income on a non-gaap basis for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 as a majority of these charges were recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona. management uses non-gaap measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. since the charges discussed below had a material impact on our non-u.s. operating results for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we believe that non-gaap operating income results better reflect our on-going exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. for further discussion of our non-gaap financial measures, see non-gaap financial measures, of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. non-gaap adjustments related to operating income for the year ended december 31, 2015 related to the following: restructuring charges of $172 million. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion; merger and strategic initiatives costs of $10 million primarily related to certain strategic initiatives and our acquisition of dwa; amortization expense of acquired intangible assets of $62 million. ince management does not consider intangible asset amortization expense for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources, such expenses have been shown as a non-gaap adjustment; and reversal of previously recorded vat receivables no longer deemed collectible of $12 million . see other tax matter, of note 10, income taxes , to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the vat receivables . 54 table of contents non-gaap adjustments related to operating income for the year ended december 31, 2014 related to the following: merger and strategic initiatives costs of $81 million primarily related to our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses in may 2013 and espeed in june 2013 and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party; special legal expense of $2 million; sublease loss reserve charge of $11 million on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity; loss on extinguishment of debt of $11 million reflecting $9 million related to the early extinguishment of our 4.00% notes in june 2014 and $2 million related to the refinancing of our 2011 credit facility ; and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets of $69 million. ince management does not consider intangible asset amortization expense for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources, such expenses have been shown as a non-gaap adjustment. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses, operating income, and non-gaap operating income for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 is presented in the following tables: euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2015 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1097 0.1186 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 10.4% 8.5% 4.4% 76.7% 100.0% percentage of operating income 20.3% (18.3)% (8.1)% 106.1% 100.0% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (22) $ (18) $ (9) $ - $ (49) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15) $ (13) $ (6) $ - $ (34) reconciliation between u.s. gaap operating income and non-gaap operating income: operating income (loss) $ 146 $ (132) $ (58) $ 764 $ 720 non-gaap adjustments: restructuring charges 5 135 7 25 172 merger and strategic initiatives - - 1 9 10 amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 3 12 8 39 62 reversal of value added tax refund - 12 - - 12 non-gaap operating income (loss) $ 154 $ 27 $ (42) $ 837 $ 976 percentage of non-gaap operating income 15.8% 2.8% (4.3)% 85.7% 100.0% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on non-gaap operating income $ (15) $ (3) $ (4) $ - $ (22) euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2014 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.3267 0.1457 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 12.4% 9.7% 5.3% 72.6% 100.0% percentage of operating income 23.5% (0.7)% (10.1)% 87.3% 100.0% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (26) $ (20) $ (11) $ - $ (57) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (17) $ (1) $ (8) $ - $ (26) reconciliation between u.s. gaap operating income and non-gaap operating income: operating income (loss) $ 177 $ (5) $ (76) $ 658 $ 754 55 table of contents non-gaap adjustments: merger and strategic initiatives 2 5 13 61 81 special legal expenses - - - 2 2 sublease loss reserve - - - 11 11 extinguishment of debt - - - 11 11 amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 3 15 9 42 69 other - - - 2 2 non-gaap operating income (loss) $ 182 $ 15 $ (54) $ 787 $ 930 percentage of non-gaap operating income 19.6% 1.6% (5.8)% 84.6% 100.0% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on non-gaap operating income $ (18) $ (2) $ (5) $ - $ (25) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. n/a not applicable. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2015 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,334 $ (333) norwegian krone 179 (18) british pound 131 (13) euro 135 (14) australian dollar 74 (7) (1) includes goodwill of $ 2,588 million and intangible assets, net of $ 644 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary nasdaq execution services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services arrangements. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit 56 table of contents risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the espeed trading platform for u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2015, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq clearing. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition listing services revenues listing ervices revenues primarily include annual renewal fees, initial listing fees, and listing of additional shares fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. technology solutions revenues market technology revenues for most technology solutions, we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to develop technology solutions, license the right to use software, and provide post-contract support and other services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence of fair value , or vsoe, for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur 57 table of contents indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our five reporting units are the market services segment, the listing services segment, the information services segment , and the two businesses comprising the technology solutions segment: corporate solutions and market technology. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2015 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in financial accounting standards board, or fasb, accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, and other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. first, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. for our annual test of goodwill impairment in 2015 , we considered the results of prior quantitative test p erformed on our reportable segments and also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units. at the time of our 2015 annual impairment test, our goodwill balance was $ 5 , 421 million, of which $ 2 , 9 60 million was attributable to our market services segment, $ 1 06 million was attributable to our l isting services segment, $ 1 , 8 32 million was attributable to our information services segment and $ 5 23 million was attributable to our technology solutions segment. we utilized the qualitative screen for our listing services, information services and market technology reporting units, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts at the time of the last quantitative test in 2013 were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment for these three reporting units, we evaluated the performance of these reporting units since these last quantitative test, as well as future financial projections to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in asc topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our listing services, information services and market technology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended december 31, 2015 . although the fair values of our market services and corporate solutions reporting units also exceeded their carrying amounts by more than 10% in our 2014 annual goodwill impairment test, since the fair values of these reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by less than 10.0% in our 2013 annual goodwill impairment test, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for these reporting units. we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for both of these reporting units and determined that the fair values of our market services and corporate solutions reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by more than 10 .0 %. as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. the fair value of our market services and corporate solutions reporting units was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. the market approach estimates fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the market services and corporate solutions reporting units operating performance. the multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to our market services and corporate solutions reporting units. the market approach requires management judgment to determine several valuation input s, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. 58 table of contents the control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our market services and corporate solutions reporting units based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. we determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management estimate of the long-term growth of the business. we then discounted the projected cash flows using the appropriate weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit . although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecasts of cash flows generated by our market services and corporate solutions reporting units or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the market services and corporate solutions reporting units would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of an impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions rega rding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2015 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair va lue of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. the espeed business operated in a market environment that became increasingly challenging during 2015 and, as a result, has experienced a decline in operating performance. as such, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we concluded that a quantitative impairment test was required for the espeed trade name indefinite-lived intangible asset. as of december 31, 2015, the carrying amount of the espeed trade name was $578 million. we performed a valuation of the trade name using a discounted cash flow analysis, which included assumptions regarding the discount rate, management projections of future operating performance and expectations regarding the future market environment, including government debt issuances and changes in interest rates. the fair value determined in this valuation exceeded the carrying amount of the trade name as of december 31, 2015, and therefore, no impairment charge was recorded . if the market environment for the espeed business remains challenging for a prolonged period of time, if market conditions deteriorate further or if operating performance over time is below management projections, we will reevaluate the espeed trade name for potential impairment. as of december 31, 2015, the fair value exceeded the carrying amount by more than 10.0%. as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements , in connection with our global rebranding initiative, we decided to change our company name from the nasdaq omx group, inc. to nasdaq, inc., which became effective in the third quarter of 2015. in connection with this action, we decided to discontinue the use of the omx trade name and recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $119 million in march 2015 because we no longer attribute any material value to the trade name. the impairment charge did not impact the company's consolidated cash flows, liquidity, or capital resources. there was no other impairment of indefinite -lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. other long-lived assets and related impairment we review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, equity and cost method investments, as well as property and equipment for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recover able . the carrying amount of a n asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. among our finite-lived intangible assets, we performed an undiscounted cash flow analysis to test whether the espeed customer relationship intangible asset was recoverable as we concluded that indicators of impairment were present in the current year as 59 table of contents discussed above under indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment. as of december 31, 2015, the espeed customer relationship intangible asset had a remaining net book value of $66 million. the results of the recoverability test indicated that the estimated future undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount of the asset by a significant amount. therefore, no impairment charge was recorded in 2015. as further discussed above under indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, we continue to monitor potential triggering events in our espeed business. any changes in these factors could result in further testing for recoverability, and, if it is determined that the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable, an impairment of the asset would then be recorded. during 2014, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $38 million and recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $14 million in 2013. see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, for further discussion of impairment charges recorded on our finite-lived intangible assets . amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 2 5 years customer relationships: 9 30 years o ther: 2 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 4, acquisitions, and note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. 60 table of contents certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. these costs include both internal and third party costs. under our technology solutions segment, certain costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized beginning when a product technological feasibility has been established and ending when a product is available for general release . technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. recent accounting pronouncements see recently adopted accounting pronouncements , and recently issued accounting pronouncements , of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 2015 2015 2015 2015 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 858 $ 807 $ 871 $ 865 transaction-based expenses (351) (289) (342) (329) revenues less transaction-based expenses 507 518 529 536 total operating expenses 480 301 298 290 operating income 27 217 231 246 net income attributable to nasdaq $ 9 $ 133 $ 138 $ 148 basic earnings per share $ 0.05 $ 0.79 $ 0.83 $ 0.90 diluted earnings per share $ 0.05 $ 0.77 $ 0.80 $ 0.88 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.15 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 1st qtr 2nd qtr 3rd qtr 4th qtr 2014 2014 2014 2014 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 898 $ 865 $ 818 $ 919 transaction-based expenses (369) (342) (321) (402) revenues less transaction-based expenses 529 523 497 517 total operating expenses 345 332 290 344 operating income 184 191 207 173 net income attributable to nasdaq $ 103 $ 101 $ 123 $ 87 basic earnings per share $ 0.61 $ 0.60 $ 0.73 $ 0.52 diluted earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 0.59 $ 0.71 $ 0.50 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ - $ 0.15 $ 0.15 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 13 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. * * * * * * nasdaq intends to use its website, ir.nasdaq.com, as a means for disclosing material non-public information and for complying with sec regulation fd and other disclosure obligations. these disclosures will be included on nasdaq's website under investor relations. iv table of contents forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, envisions, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance, and other future developments identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2017 outlook; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures or other transactional activities; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including transactional activities and other strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products, order backlog and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity and capital; and any litigation, or any regulatory or government investigation or action, to which we are or could become a party. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; loss of significant trading and clearing volumes or values, fees, market share, listed companies, data products customers or other customers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address cybersecurity risks; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties; our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the litigation or regulatory areas, or in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nasdaq, inc. is a leading provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, trade management services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions, and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting equity derivative trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. in february 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. in connection with this acquisition, we changed our corporate name to the nasdaq omx group, inc. we operated under this name until we rebranded our business as nasdaq, inc. in 2015. since 2008, in addition to growing organically, we have executed multiple acquisitions that have expanded our operations globally and increasingly diversified our product and service offerings. these acquisitions included, among others, the philadelphia stock exchange, inc. in 2008, smarts in 2010, espeed and the tr corporate businesses in 2014 and ise in 2016. products and services we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, corporate services, information services and market technology. in 2016, due to changes in our executive leadership and to better reflect how our chief operating decision maker views the businesses, we realigned our reportable segments to integrate the corporate solutions and listing services businesses into our new corporate services segment. market technology is now a separate reportable segment. prior to this change, our corporate solutions and market technology businesses were part of our technology solutions segment. all prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. see note 1, organization and nature of operations, and note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, ficc and trade management services businesses. our ficc business was formerly referred to as fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing, and our trade management services business was formerly referred to as access and broker services. we operate multiple exchanges and other marketplace facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and etps. in addition, in some countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide broker services, clearing, settlement and central depository services. our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions, providing fee-based revenues. equity derivative trading and clearing following our acquisition of ise, we now operate six electronic options exchanges in the u.s.: nasdaq phlx, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq bx options, nasdaq ise, nasdaq gmni and nasdaq mcry. these exchanges facilitate the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. for the year ended december 31, 2016, our options exchanges had a combined matched market share of 31.6% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of 16.0% at nasdaq phlx, 7.8% at the nasdaq options market, 0.8% at nasdaq bx options, 5.8% at nasdaq ise, 1.1% at nasdaq gmni and 0.1% at nasdaq mcry. together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the u.s. market for multiply-listed options on equities and etfs. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the ccp. nasdaq clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges: the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. the nasdaq stock 2 table of contents market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities. for the year ended december 31, 2016, our cash equity exchanges had a combined matched market share of 17.4% in the u.s. cash equity market, consisting of 14.0% at the nasdaq stock market, 2.4% at nasdaq bx and 1.0% at nasdaq psx. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, atss and registered securities exchanges. in february 2016, we acquired chi-x canada ats limited, a leading alternative market in canada for the trading of canadian-listed securities. with this acquisition, which expanded nasdaq's cash equity trading business in north america, nasdaq offers two lit markets and one dark market for the trading of canadian-listed securities. effective june 1, 2016, we changed the name of chi-x canada to nasdaq cxc. in europe, nasdaq operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and reykjavik (iceland). we also operate exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). nasdaq owns nasdaq tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq vilnius and nasdaq riga. in addition, nasdaq owns the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. collectively, the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges offer trading in cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and exchange traded funds. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. ficc our ficc business includes the nasdaq fixed income business, nfx and nasdaq commodities. in early 2017, we announced a new fixed income strategy under new leadership. the repositioning, which is designed to enhance the customer experience, brings our u.s. and european fixed income products and services together under a single brand called nasdaq fixed income. the u.s. portion of nasdaq fixed income includes the business formerly known as espeed, an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries that we acquired in june 2013. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities. through this business, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. the european portion of nasdaq fixed income provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland and iceland. nasdaq stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 8,300 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq clearing for ccp clearing. nasdaq clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq's worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. nasdaq commodities' offerings include oil, power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. the products are listed on two of nasdaq's derivatives exchanges. nasdaq oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for european products and freight. all trades with nasdaq oslo asa are subject to clearing with nasdaq clearing, which is a ccp authorized under emir by the sfsa to conduct clearing operations. we also operate nfx, our u.s. based energy derivatives market. nfx, which is a designated contract market authorized by the cftc, offers cash-settled energy derivatives based on key energy benchmarks including oil, natural gas and u.s. power. all trades with nfx are subject to clearing with occ. trade management services we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems' scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, drop functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data centers. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible 3 table of contents back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company's back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication to deposit banks. corporate services corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges and private companies. we help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. in 2013, we acquired the tr corporate businesses, which were integrated into our corporate solutions business. we provide corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations . we offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools, including investor relations webcasting, press release services, and websites. our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. in early 2016, we launched nasdaq ir insight, our new investor relations platform. public relations. we offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. we provide traditional and social media contacts databases, backed by our internal research analysts. our press release distribution network allows clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. our suite of technology solutions and expert analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. in february 2016, we acquired marketwired, a global newswire operator and press release distributor that is being integrated into this business. multimedia solutions. we offer a platform and services which enable our customers to produce webcasts for a wide range of applications, including investor relations, public relations, marketing and internal communications. governance. we offer a secure collaboration platform for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. in may 2016, we acquired boardvantage, a leading provider of collaboration and meeting productivity tools for boards of directors and executive leadership teams. this acquisition is being integrated into our governance business. we currently have approximately 18,000 corporate solutions clients. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2016, a total of 2,897 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,443 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 783 on the nasdaq global market and 671 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2016, the nasdaq stock market attracted 283 new listings, including 91 ipos, 73% of u.s. ipos in 2016. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange llc, or nyse, and nyse mkt llc, or nyse mkt 20 ipos 91 upgrades from otc 37 etps and other listings 135 total 283 the 20 nyse- or nyse mkt-listed companies that switched to the nasdaq stock market, represented approximately $61 billion in market capitalization. notable switches included ihs markit ltd., imperva, inc., opko health, inc. and scripps networks interactive, inc. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2016, a total of 900 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etps, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2016, a total of 88 new companies listed on our nordic and 4 table of contents baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. in addition, seven companies upgraded their listings from nasdaq first north to the nordic and baltic exchanges. our listing services business also includes npm, which provides services for private companies. information services our information services segment includes our data products and our index licensing and services businesses. data products our data products business sells and distributes historical and real-time quote and trade information to market participants and data distributors. our data products enhance transparency of the market activity within the exchanges that we operate and provide critical information to professional and nonprofessional investors globally. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx, nasdaq psx, nasdaq fixed income and nordic markets. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost alternative to the industry level 1 feed, ultrafeed, a normalized high speed, consolidated data feed offering, and dwa's web-based advisor tools. we also provide options, futures, commodities, u.s. treasury, indexes and mutual fund data. our data products business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market acts as the processor and administrator for the utp plan. the utp plan administrator sells quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, the utp plan administrator distributes the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, much like nasdaq-listed securities, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real-time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. much like the u.s. products, european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. in addition, the ise options exchanges and nasdaq cxc have data businesses that information services now manages and distributes. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview, and nordic fixed income totalview, level 2, analytics and fixings. finally, we provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch/global index file delivery service, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. index licensing and services our index licensing and services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. we also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. as of december 31, 2016, we had 298 etps licensed to nasdaq's indexes which had over $124 billion of assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. we also operate the nasdaq global index family, which includes more than 40,000 indexes. the nasdaq global index family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and approximately 9,000 securities. 5 table of contents dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies, adds to nasdaq's robust index portfolio, bringing model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and further strengthens nasdaq's position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. as of december 31, 2016, there are $54 billion in assets under management in etps that track nasdaq smart beta indexes. market technology powering more than 85 marketplaces in 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. our market technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. during 2016, we launched the nasdaq financial framework to deliver to our market technology clients a single operational core that ties together nasdaq's portfolio of technology offerings across the trade lifecycle. this portfolio includes technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to emerging markets in the middle east, latin america and africa. our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. our trading and data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. nasdaq's market technology is utilized by, among others, asx limited, bolsa de valores de colombia, borsa istanbul a. ., borse dubai limited, bursa malaysia berhad, egyptian exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing limited, japan exchange group, inc., nex group plc, sbi japannext co., ltd., singapore exchange ltd., six swiss exchange ltd and tokyo commodity exchange, inc. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services. we also offer broker services through smarts. smarts is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. finally, through bwise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. competition market services we face intense competition in north america and europe in businesses that comprise our market services segment. we seek to provide market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, speed of execution, high levels of customer service, and efficient pricing. in both north america and europe, our competitors include other exchange operators, operators of non-exchange (less-heavily regulated) trading systems and banks and brokerages that operate their own internal trading pools and platforms. examples of registered exchanges that compete with our options markets in the u.s. include: bats bzx exchange, inc., or bats bzx; bats edgx exchange, inc., or bats edgx; box options exchange llc; chicago board options exchange, incorporated, or cboe; c2 options exchange, incorporated; miami international securities exchange; miax pearl, llc, or miax pearl; nyse arca, inc., or nyse arca; and nyse mkt, which operates the nyse amex options business. examples of registered exchanges competing with our cash equities markets in the u.s. include: bats byx exchange, inc., or bats byx; bats bzx; bats edga exchange, inc., or bats edga; bats edgx; nyse; nyse arca; nyse mkt; and the investors exchange llc. in addition to competition from these exchanges, we face competition from atss and other less-heavily regulated broker-owned systems, some of which are also known as dark pools, and from other types of otc trading. registered exchanges that compete with our cash equities markets in europe include: bats trading limited; euronext n.v.; deutsche b rse a.g.; and london stock exchange group plc, or lse. we also intensely compete with mtfs, such as that operated by turquoise global holdings limited. examples of our competitors in the trading and clearing of options and futures on european equities include: the eurex group companies operated by deutsche b rse a.g., or eurex; ice futures europe; and the mtf operated by turquoise global holdings limited. competition among exchanges for trading european equity derivatives tends to occur where there is competition in the trading of the underlying equities. in addition to exchange-based competition, we face competition from otc derivative markets. the implementation of mifid ii and mifir over the next several years is expected to lead to further competitive pressure on our european trading business. mtfs are already attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. with the regulatory environment likely to become more favorable to alternative trading venues, we expect such venues to compete aggressively for the trading of equity securities listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems pursuing block business will also remain active in europe. in responding to 6 table of contents current and potential competition, we constantly review our pricing and product offerings. our ficc business also operates in an intensely competitive environment. our trading platform for benchmark u.s. treasuries faces competition from both long-established and newly emerging electronic and voice brokerages, and the operating environment remains extremely challenging. our european fixed income products and services are subject to relentless competitive pressure from otc dealers as well as exchanges. our suite of commodity-related products and services is in many cases designed to challenge the more established players. our trade management services business competes with other exchange operators, extranet providers, and data center providers. corporate services in our corporate solutions business, competition is varied and can be fragmented. in investor relations services, there are many regional competitors and relatively few global providers. other exchange operators are partnering with firms that have capabilities in this area and seeking to acquire relevant assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside listing services. the competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers, who offer wire distribution along with audience targeting, monitoring and analytics services, and a large number of regional and niche providers. in multimedia solutions and webhosting, competition is fragmented and includes firms that address enterprise buyers, offering them either managed or self-service capabilities. the competitive landscape for governance solutions varies by sector and geography. most vendors in the market offer software-as-a-service solutions that are supported by a data center strategy. many vendors offer specialized services that focus on a niche sector while the larger players in the market may offer additional services around corporate governance. customers frequently seek single-source providers that are able to address a broad range of needs within a single platform. our listing services in both the u.s. and europe are a means of facilitating capital formation through public capital markets. there are competing ways of raising capital, and we seek to demonstrate the benefits of listing shares on an exchange. our primary competitor for larger company stock share listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse mkt for listing of shares of smaller companies. in addition, bats bzx competes for etp listings. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and international markets located outside the u.s. for listings of equity securities of both u.s. and non-u.s. companies that choose to list (or dual-list) outside of their home country. for example, the nasdaq stock market competes for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the stock exchange of hong kong limited. the listings business in europe is characterized by a large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges, which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, examples of competing european exchanges that frequently attract many listings from outside their respective home countries include lse, euronext n.v. and deutsche b rse a.g. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies seeking capital or liquidity from public capital markets are able to raise capital without a regulated market listing and can consider trading their shares on smaller markets and quoting facilities. information services our data products business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange's systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors to provide information to market participants. examples of our competitors in proprietary data products are: intercontinental exchange, inc., or ice; bats global markets, inc., or bats; s&amp;p global inc.; and dow jones &amp; company. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on securities listed on other markets. our index licensing and services business faces competition from providers of various competing financial indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers. market technology the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally, sometimes aided by consultants, has changed, as many operators have recognized the cost-savings made possible by buying technology from third parties. as a result, two types of competitors have emerged in our market technology segment: exchange operators and technology providers unaffiliated with exchanges. these organizations make available a range of off-the-shelf technology, including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination, and offer customization and operation expertise. 7 table of contents there is a wide range of providers that compete with us in surveillance, as well as governance, risk and compliance solutions. in surveillance, standardization of products and budget pressures drive customers to focus on pricing. in governance, risk and compliance, our products must compete with solutions that are often part of larger suites, such as those related to information technology management or general business management. market conditions in this segment are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment and innovation a necessity. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. we have established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems. this program is focused on (i) identifying areas for improvement in systems and (ii) implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. we have continued our focus on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. in 2016, we expanded this program to include recently acquired companies. core technology. the foundation for nasdaq's core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across our u.s. and european markets. inet is also a key building block of our market technology offerings, genium inet and x-stream inet. genium inet and x-stream inet both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability, resiliency and market integrity. data centers . nasdaq utilizes data center facilities in key global regions to support our markets, technology services, disaster recovery capabilities and operations centers. in 2016, we continued to migrate systems to our facility in chicago as well as completed migration to a new data center in sweden. blockchain initiatives . during 2016, we continued to develop nasdaq linq, a solution based on blockchain-enabled technology, that may be used to expand and enhance issuers' equity management capabilities. we also are completing work on a proof of concept for proxy voting in estonia and announced the incorporation of blockchain services into the new nasdaq financial framework. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the u.s. and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the u.s. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of our products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. corporate venture practice in 2017, nasdaq expects to establish a corporate venture practice to invest primarily in financial technology companies. nasdaq envisions that investments made through the venture practice will further our organic research and development efforts, and accelerate our path to commercial viability, in the same way previous investments have supported our blockchain and machine intelligence initiatives. nasdaq expects that the capital invested will be modest and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or existing capital return or deployment priorities. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., canada and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. sros conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation's securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self- 8 table of contents regulatory function of each of our sros and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our sros relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our sros to carry out their responsibilities under the exchange act. although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro's own rules, impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an sro, the sec must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act. moreover, an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and six options markets in the u.s. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market's sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx's sro license; nasdaq psx and nasdaq phlx pursuant to nasdaq phlx's sro license; and nasdaq ise, nasdaq gmni and nasdaq mcry, each under their own sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of our exchanges are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we also are subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros' rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to our markets, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company's compliance with the nasdaq stock market's financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on the nasdaq stock market to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer's on-going compliance with the nasdaq stock market's continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc, or nasdaq execution services, currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq's u.s. cash equity exchanges and three of our six options exchanges to other venues for execution. execution access llc, or execution access, operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including nasdaq fixed income's registered ats for u.s. treasuries. npm securities, llc operates an ats involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under section 12 of the exchange act), including acting as the buyer's and seller's agent to facilitate private placement transactions on the ats. smtx, llc, or smtx, also operates as a broker-dealer for npm. finally, nasdaq capital markets advisory llc, or nasdaq 9 table of contents capital markets advisory, acts as a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during ipos and various other offerings. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of finra and most of the registered national securities exchanges in the u.s. execution access is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 22 states and the u.s. virgin islands based on business requirements. additionally, execution access is a finra member organization. execution access operates an sec registered ats, which is part of nasdaq fixed income, to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access is an introducing broker for trades matched on this ats. the trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. npm securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands. additionally, npm securities is a finra member organization. npm securities does not hold funds or securities. funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. the issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form. smtx is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 48 states and the district of columbia based on business requirements. additionally, smtx is a finra member organization. npm provides the technological tools and website hosting on a platform that issuers may use for administrative purposes, document execution, handling and storage, and to facilitate communications with participants of tender offers and merger and acquisition transactions. smtx's role is to act as information agent with regard to onboarding potential participants, a depositary agent to receive tender of securities and transaction closing funds, and a paying agent to wire funds to participants at the closing. nasdaq capital markets advisory is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and the state of new york based on business requirements. additionally, nasdaq capital markets advisory is a finra member organization. nasdaq capital markets advisory acts as a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during their initial public offerings, follow-on equity offerings, at-the-market equity offerings, private placement offerings and regulation a equity offerings. nasdaq capital markets advisory's role is limited to providing a company, or an investment bank on behalf of a company, with reports, profiles and other pertinent advisory information. nasdaq capital markets advisory does not act as an underwriter, syndicate group member or placement agent for any company, select underwriters or syndicate group members, hold funds or securities, accept investor indications of interest, solicit investors or decide which investors receive securities on behalf of a company. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer's business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers' purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer's dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec's financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2016, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . our sros have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes 10 table of contents regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of our sros and their members; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market serves as the processor for the utp plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in october 2015. the nasdaq stock market also serves as the administrator for the utp plan. as the processor, the nasdaq stock market performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the utp plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the exchange act and regulation nms. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, the nasdaq stock market has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. as the administrator, the nasdaq stock market manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members. regulation sci. effective as of november 2015, regulation sci is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. we implemented an inter-disciplinary program to ensure compliance with regulation sci. new regulation sci policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was rolled out to ensure compliance. regulation of registered investment advisor subsidiary. our subsidiary dwa is an investment advisor registered with the sec under the investment advisors act of 1940. in this capacity, dwa is subject to oversight and inspections by the sec. among other things, registered investment advisors like dwa must comply with certain disclosure obligations, advertising and fee restrictions and requirements relating to client suitability and custody of funds and securities. registered investment advisors are also subject to anti-fraud provisions under both federal and state law. cftc regulation. we also operate nfx, a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. the national futures association provides regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. as a designated contract market, nfx is required to comply on an ongoing basis with 23 core principles set forth in section 5(d) of the commodity exchange act and with part 38 of the cftc's regulations. nfx is also subject to the requirements of part 40 of the cftc's regulations with respect to the adoption of new rules or rule amendments and the listing of new products. nfx is subject to cftc rule enforcement reviews conducted by the cftc's division of market oversight. rule enforcement reviews may examine a designated contract market's audit trail, trade practice surveillance, disciplinary and dispute resolution programs for compliance with the relevant core principles. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the u.s. and their customers. canadian regulation regulation of nasdaq cxc and its three markets in canada is performed by the canadian securities administrators, an umbrella organization of canada's provincial and territorial securities regulators. operating in ontario, nasdaq cxc's lead regulator is the ontario securities commission. as an approved 11 table of contents ats, nasdaq cxc is subject to the marketplace rules (national instrument 21-101 and national instrument 23-101), which include requirements for fair access, transparency of operations, systems and confidentiality of trading information. as an ats, nasdaq cxc is also a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and must comply with its dealer member rules. in december 2016, nasdaq cxc also filed an application to operate as an exchange in canada which is pending regulatory approval. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and european economic area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and market abuse. in mid-2012, emir, a regulation relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions, was adopted. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq clearing, like other european ccps, applied to reauthorize its ccp operations. nasdaq clearing was the first european ccp to be authorized as emir-compliant when the sfsa approved its application as a ccp under emir in 2014. mifid ii and mifir were adopted in 2014. these regulations will primarily affect our european trading businesses as they are implemented over the next few years. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir will be implemented through technical standards drafted by the european securities and markets authority and approved by the european commission. implementation is ongoing and both mifid ii and mifir will apply to the european union member states by early 2018. in addition, in 2016, the european union adopted legislation on governance and control of the production and use of benchmark indexes. the so-called benchmark regulation will apply in the european union by early 2018. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq clearing's role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq stockholm's exchange activities are regulated primarily by the ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange's articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq clearing holds the license as a ccp under emir. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange's rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners' interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa's supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange's obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in iceland, norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. in denmark and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of each exchange. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered 12 table of contents by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. employees as of december 31, 2016 , nasdaq had 4,325 employees. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.business.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq's website and click on investor relations, then under financial information click on sec filings. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, changes in investment patterns and priorities, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volumes or values, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our data, index, corporate solutions and market technology products. trading volumes and values are driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volumes or values may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. information services revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market and in etp assets under management tracking nasdaq indexes. finally, there may be less demand for our corporate solutions or market technology products if global economic conditions are weak. a reduction in trading volumes or values, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for information services, corporate solutions or market technology products due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our data products, index licensing and services, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and demand for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several decades, many marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have also merged to achieve greater economies of scale 13 table of contents and scope. the proposed mergers of the lse with deutsche b rse a.g. and of cboe with bats are two current examples of pending consolidation among marketplaces. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the european union that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing competitors. we also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. in addition, pricing in our corporate services, index licensing and services and market technology businesses is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in service outages, lower trading volumes or values, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets and the markets that rely on our technology have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position. we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products and initiatives. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. a decline in trading and clearing volumes or values or market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes and values are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and 14 table of contents clearing volumes and values across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes or values. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume or value of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes or values would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes or values through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes or values may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume or value of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower the nasdaq stock market's share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our data products business. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyberattack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volumes or values, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. any system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our platforms to include other products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses, including ise, nasdaq cxc, marketwired and boardvantage. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies' operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or customers not renewing their contracts with us as we migrate platforms; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on a deal partner for transition services, including billing services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; 15 table of contents resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. gaap and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations that can be ambiguous and can change unexpectedly. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., europe and canada. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future that can change in response to global conditions and events. our ability to comply with complex and changing regulation is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks and regulatory obligations, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. 16 table of contents for example, during 2016, the sfsa and the other nordic financial supervisory authorities conducted investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed the sfsa's decision, including the amount of the fine. in the future, we could be subject to sec or other regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, favorable sec rulings and interpretations can be challenged in and reversed by federal courts of appeals, reducing or eliminating the value of such prior interpretations. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sros. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer's net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. the non-u.s. countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include canada, sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities' requirements. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure and technological oversight. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. in 2015, the sec created an equity market structure advisory committee to consider and opine on market structure issues relevant to nasdaq's three u.s. equities markets. within the past year, the advisory committee held three meetings and discussed a wide range of issues, including order routing, best execution, access fees and maker-taker pricing, market data fees, and securities information processors. the advisory committee has recommended that the sec conduct an access fee pilot that could limit the ability of nasdaq's three cash equities exchanges to assess fees and could impact the overall revenue of these exchanges. additionally, the sec recently extended the announced sunset of this advisory committee from february 2017 to august 2017, and further extensions are possible. while these discussions may impact nasdaq's 17 table of contents business in the future, it is too early to determine which, if any, of the advisory committee recommendations the commission will propose, adopt and implement. future mifid ii and mifir rules could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe could have a material impact on our business. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, the adoption of these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs and obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. we have defeated two challenges in federal appeals court and an additional challenge at the administrative level within the sec. however, the industry challengers have sought additional review of that administrative decision by the full sec. that sec review remains pending and, when resolved, it may be appealed to a federal court of appeals. if the results of the full sec review and any subsequent appeal are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges' ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our data products revenues. in canada, all new marketplace fees and changes to existing fees, including trading and data fees, must be filed with and approved by the ontario securities commission. in 2016, the canadian securities administrators approved amendments that impose a fee cap for trading fees and the adoption of a data fees methodology that restricts the total amount of fees that can be charged by all marketplaces to a reference level that is not yet defined. until this reference is established, increases in market data fees will not be permitted. when a reference is established, all marketplaces will be subject to annual reviews of their market data fees tying market data revenues to market share. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. it is expected that the future mifid ii rules will result in a definition of the term reasonable commercial basis. there is a risk that the final wording of this definition may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition any future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner that we do today thereby causing an adverse effect on our data products revenues. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. on august 22, 2013, we experienced an outage in the exclusive processor system we maintain and operate on behalf of all exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed stocks that resulted in a market-wide trading halt lasting approximately three hours. following this system outage, the sec and others evaluated all infrastructure that is critical to the national market system, including the processor systems. nasdaq, as technology provider to the utp operating committee, proposed, received approval for, and implemented measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. additionally, the utp operating committee recently approved nasdaq's proposal to transfer the processor technology from its current enhanced platform to nasdaq's inet platform. the migration, which was completed in late 2016, further enhanced the resiliency of the processor systems. if, despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. stagnation or decline in the listings market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for listings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. although the market for listings over the past couple of years was strong, stagnation or decline in the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges will impact our revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for listings could cause a decrease in revenues for future years. furthermore, a prolonged decrease in the number of listings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. our corporate solutions business is also impacted by declines in the listings market or increases in acquisitions activity as there will be fewer publicly-traded customers that need our products. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and corporate development activity as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of 18 table of contents capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and most tranches of our senior notes fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based, corporate solutions and market technology products, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our data products business and the accuracy of calculations used by our index licensing and services business for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volumes or values on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our data products, index licensing and services, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2016, goodwill totaled approximately $6.0 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $2.1 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity and cost method investments, and property and equipment for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. we estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows. considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. however, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million in 2016 and $119 million in 2015. in addition, we recorded asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014. we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. for additional discussion of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including related impairment, see goodwill and related impairment, indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, and other long-lived assets and related impairment, of critical accounting policies and estimates, of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and valuation of other long-lived assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements. 19 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes or values. in particular, our u.s. business operations are heavily concentrated on the east coast, and our european business operations are heavily concentrated in stockholm. any event that affects either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancings. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management's expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald &amp; co., or cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2016, we have contributed $20 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access' obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. although we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. 20 table of contents our indebtedness as of december 31, 2016 was approximately $3.6 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $749 million under our revolving credit facility. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, dispose of assets and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. our credit facilities allow us to pay cash dividends on our common stock as long as certain leverage ratios are maintained. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of an sro. although our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges outsource a substantial portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our 21 table of contents intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, data storage, data content, clearing and other services. to the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. in addition, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. such transactions may be material in size and scope. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions or investments in businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; declines in the value of investments; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. 22 table of contents changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, the middle east, africa and asia. our expansion into lower cost locations, such as lithuania, india and the philippines, may increase operational risk. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the u.k., australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq's global risk steering committee, which is comprised of employees and is responsible for regularly reviewing risks for materiality and referring significant risks to the board of directors or specific board committees. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. since 2013, our board of directors has declared quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq's board of directors. the board's determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. 23 table of contents accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec's concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec's approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation's board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. * * * * * * segment operating results the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) market services $ 2,255 $ 2,084 $ 2,229 8.2 % (6.5 )% transaction-based expenses (1,428 ) (1,313 ) (1,433 ) 8.8 % (8.4 )% market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 827 771 796 7.3 % (3.1 )% corporate services 635 562 552 13.0 % 1.8 % information services 540 512 473 5.5 % 8.2 % market technology 275 245 246 12.2 % (0.4 )% total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,277 $ 2,090 $ 2,067 8.9 % 1.1 % 34 table of contents the following charts show our market services, corporate services, information services and market technology segments as a percentage of our total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,277 million in 2016, $2,090 million in 2015 and $2,067 million in 2014: 35 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 541 $ 432 $ 525 25.2 % (17.7 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (288 ) (223 ) (285 ) 29.1 % (21.8 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (25 ) (21 ) (32 ) 19.0 % (34.4 )% equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 228 188 208 21.3 % (9.6 )% cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,349 1,315 1,335 2.6 % (1.5 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (785 ) (756 ) (780 ) 3.8 % (3.1 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (309 ) (306 ) (332 ) 1.0 % (7.8 )% cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 255 253 223 0.8 % 13.5 % ficc revenues 99 98 130 1.0 % (24.6 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (19 ) (4 ) 375.0 % 100.0 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2 ) (3 ) (4 ) (33.3 )% (25.0 )% ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses 78 91 126 (14.3 )% (27.8 )% trade management services revenues 266 239 239 11.3 % % total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 827 $ 771 $ 796 7.3 % (3.1 )% ____________ (1) includes section 31 fees of $24 million in 2016, $19 million in 2015 and $28 million in 2014. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. (2) includes section 31 fees of $290 million in 2016, $282 million in 2015 and $306 million in 2014. section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the increases in 2016 were primarily due to: the inclusion of revenues from our acquisition of ise, partially offset by; lower u.s. industry trading volumes; and lower market share at nasdaq phlx. the decreases in 2015 were primarily due to: a decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges; a decrease in u.s. industry trading volumes; and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million, partially offset by; an increase in trading volumes in european stock options and index futures products. further impacting the decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues in 2015 was a decrease in the u.s. average revenue capture rate and a decline in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. further impacting the decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2015 was a decrease in the u.s. average net capture rate. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and 36 table of contents differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. the increase in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to the inclusion of section 31 fees from our acquisition of ise. the decrease in 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to lower rates and lower dollar value traded. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to: the inclusion of rebates associated with our acquisition of ise, partially offset by; lower u.s. industry trading volumes; and lower market share at nasdaq phlx. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a: decrease in the average rebate rate; decline in overall market share at our three u.s. options exchanges; and decrease in u.s. industry trading volumes. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees due to the inclusion of section 31 fees from our acquisition of ise. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to lower section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in routing costs due to a decline in volume routed. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2016 compared with 2015. the increases in 2016 were primarily due to: the inclusion of revenues associated with our acquisition of nasdaq cxc; and higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes, partially offset by a; decrease in our overall u.s. and european matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2016 was also unfavorably impacted by a decrease in the u.s. average net capture rate. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to: a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges; a decline in section 31 pass-through fee revenue; and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million, partially offset by; higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes; and an increase in the u.s. average revenue capture rate. cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to: higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes; and an increase in the average net capture rate, partially offset by; a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges; and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. the increase in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges and higher sec fee rates. the decrease in 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to lower sec fee rates, partially offset by higher dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges. for the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq psx and nasdaq cxc, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates increased in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to: higher u.s. industry trading volumes; and the inclusion of rebates associated with our acquisition of nasdaq cxc, partially offset by a; decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a: decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges; and a decline in the average rebate rate, partially offset by an; increase in u.s. industry trading volumes. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decline in section 31 pass-through fees. 37 table of contents ficc revenues ficc revenues increased slightly in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased both in 2016 compared with 2015 and in 2015 compared with 2014. the decrease in ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2016 was primarily due to the impact of nfx trading incentives and a decline in u.s. fixed income revenues, partially offset by higher commodities revenues. the decrease in ficc revenues and ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2015 was primarily due to volume declines in u.s. fixed income products and european commodities products, a decrease related to a scheduled contract termination of a technology licensing customer, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million, partially offset by lower trading incentives at nasdaq nlx, our former london-based multilateral trading venue. trade management services revenues trade management services revenues increased in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to an increase in customer demand for network connectivity and the inclusion of revenues from our acquisition of ise. trade management services revenues were flat in 2015 compared with 2014 as an increase in customer demand for network connectivity was offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. corporate services the following table shows revenues from our corporate services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) corporate services: corporate solutions $ 363 $ 298 $ 314 21.8 % (5.1 )% listing services 272 264 238 3.0 % 10.9 % total corporate services $ 635 $ 562 $ 552 13.0 % 1.8 % corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisitions of marketwired and boardvantage. see acquisition of marketwired, and acquisition of boardvantage, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the marketwired and boardvantage acquisitions. corporate solutions revenues decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to a decline in the demand for our investor relations products and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 million. listing services revenues listing services revenues increased both in 2016 compared with 2015 and in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in european revenues due to new company listings. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in u.s. listing services revenues, partially offset by a decrease in european listing services revenues. the increase in u.s. listing services revenues was primarily due to an increase in annual listing fees as a result of pricing actions and an increase in the number of listed companies. the decrease in european listing services revenues was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million, partially offset by an increase in the number of listed companies and higher annual renewal fees. information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) information services: data products $ 427 $ 399 $ 384 7.0 % 3.9 % index licensing and services 113 113 89 % 27.0 % total information services $ 540 $ 512 $ 473 5.5 % 8.2 % data products revenues data products revenues increased both in 2016 compared with 2015 and in 2015 compared with 2014. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to growth in proprietary data products revenues, the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisitions of ise and nasdaq cxc, and higher index data products revenues. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of dwa, higher revenues from shared tape revenue plans, and higher customer demand for u.s. proprietary data products, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. index licensing and services revenues index licensing and services revenues were flat in 2016 compared with 2015 as an increase in revenues associated with the acquisition of ise was offset by a decrease in average fees on etps tracking to nasdaq indexes and a decrease in the value of underlying assets associated with non-etp nasdaq-licensed products. index licensing and services revenues increased in 2015 compared with 2014 due to an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with nasdaq-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses. the increase in 2015 was also due to our acquisition of dwa. 38 table of contents see acquisition of ise, acquisition of nasdaq cxc, and acquisition of dwa, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our ise, nasdaq cxc and dwa acquisitions. market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) market technology $ 275 $ 245 $ 246 12.2 % (0.4 )% market technology revenues the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in revenues from software, licensing and support as well as surveillance products. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million and lower software license and support revenues, partially offset by operational increases in software as a service revenues and change request revenues, reflecting increased customer demand. total order value total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $777 million as of december 31, 2016, $788 million as of december 31, 2015 and $716 million as of december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2016, market technology deferred revenue of $185 million represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2017 $ 224 2018 181 2019 117 2020 107 2021 72 2022 and thereafter 76 total $ 777 * * * * * * expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 664 $ 590 $ 588 12.5 % 0.3 % professional and contract services 153 148 157 3.4 % (5.7 )% computer operations and data communications 111 107 92 3.7 % 16.3 % occupancy 86 85 110 1.2 % (22.7 )% general, administrative and other 72 65 89 10.8 % (27.0 )% marketing and advertising 30 28 32 7.1 % (12.5 )% depreciation and amortization 170 138 137 23.2 % 0.7 % regulatory 35 27 27 29.6 % % merger and strategic initiatives 76 10 81 660.0 % (87.7 )% restructuring charges 41 172 (76.2 )% 100 % total operating expenses $ 1,438 $ 1,370 $ 1,313 5.0 % 4.3 % the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2016 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs resulting from our 2016 acquisitions and accelerated expense due to the retirement of the company's former ceo for equity awards previously granted. partially offsetting the 2016 increases was lower compensation expense reflecting lower performance incentives and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs associated with higher performance incentives and increased compensation costs resulting from our acquisition of dwa. partially offsetting the 2015 increases was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $38 million. headcount increased to 4,325 employees at december 31, 2016 from 3,824 at december 31, 2015. headcount was 3,687 at december 31, 2014. 39 table of contents the increase in professional and contract services expense in 2016 was primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the increase in computer operations and data communications expense in 2016 was primarily due to higher hardware and license costs associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in vat, reflecting a charge for the reversal of previously recorded vat receivables no longer deemed collectible of $12 million and higher software lease and maintenance costs, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million. the increase in occupancy expense in 2016 primarily reflects additional facility and rent costs associated with our 2016 acquisitions, partially offset by lower facility and rent costs as a result of our restructuring activities. the decrease in 2015 reflects lower facility and rent costs due to our restructuring activities and lower costs resulting from services no longer needed under the transition services agreement that was entered into in connection with our acquisition of the tr corporate businesses. also contributing to the decrease in 2015 was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in general, administrative and other expense in 2016 is primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a lower provision for bad debts due to better collection results, a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million, and a loss on extinguishment of debt recorded in 2014. marketing and advertising expense increased in 2016 primarily due to an increase in advertising spend while the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to decreased advertising spend. the increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2016 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with software assets placed in service and acquired intangible assets, primarily related to our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets relating to the acquisition of dwa, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with assets and software placed in service. partially offsetting these increases was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $10 million. regulatory expense increased in 2016 due to investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed the sfsa's decision, including the amount of the fine. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2016 was primarily related to our acquisitions of ise, boardvantage, marketwired, and nasdaq cxc. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2015 was primarily related to certain strategic initiatives and our acquisition of dwa. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2014 was primarily related to our acquisitions of the tr corporate businesses and espeed and a charge of $23 million related to the reversal of a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2016 and 2015. * * * * * * non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) interest income $ 5 $ 4 $ 6 25.0 % (33.3 )% interest expense (135 ) (111 ) (117 ) 21.6 % (5.1 )% net interest expense (130 ) (107 ) (111 ) 21.5 % (3.6 )% asset impairment charges (578 ) (49 ) 100.0 % (100.0 )% other investment income 3 100.0 % % net income from unconsolidated investees 2 17 (88.2 )% 100.0 % total non-operating expenses $ (703 ) $ (90 ) $ (160 ) 681.1 % (43.8 )% interest income interest income increased slightly in 2016 compared with 2015 and decreased in 2015 compared with 2014. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to lower average cash and financial investments balances. 40 table of contents interest expense the following table shows our interest expense: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) interest expense $ 129 $ 106 $ 110 21.7 % (3.6 )% accretion of debt issuance costs and debt discount 5 4 4 25.0 % % other bank and investment-related fees 1 1 3 % (66.7 )% total interest expense $ 135 $ 111 $ 117 21.6 % (5.1 )% interest expense increased in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to our 2016 debt issuances. interest expense decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. asset impairment charges the asset impairment charge of $578 million in 2016 related to a pre-tax, non-cash intangible asset impairment charge related to the full write-off of the espeed trade name due to a continued decline in the operating performance of the espeed business during 2016 and a rebranding of our fixed income business under a single brand called nasdaq fixed income. asset impairment charges of $49 million in 2014 related to a $38 million non-cash intangible asset impairment charge associated with customer relationships and an $11 million non-cash asset impairment charge related to certain technology assets. see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the intangible asset impairment charges in both 2016 and 2014. other investment income other investment income was $3 million in 2016 and primarily relates to dividend income received on a cost method investment. net income from unconsolidated investees net income from unconsolidated investees was $2 million in 2016 and included income recognized from our equity method investments in occ and euroccp n.v. , partially offset by the write-off of our equity method investment in the order machine. net income from unconsolidated investees was $17 million in 2015 and primarily included income recognized from our equity method investment in occ. we were not able to determine what our share of occ's income was for the year ended december 31, 2014 until the first quarter of 2015, when financial statements were made available to us. as a result, we recorded other income of $13 million in the first quarter of 2015 relating to our share of occ's income for the year ended december 31, 2014. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our equity method investments. tax matters the following table shows our income tax provision and effective tax rates: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 ($ in millions) income tax provision $ 28 $ 203 $ 181 (86.2 )% 12.2 % effective tax rate 20.6 % 32.2 % 30.5 % (11.6 )% 1.7 % the lower effective tax rate in 2016 when compared with 2015 is primarily due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings, largely driven by the write-off of the espeed trade name, partially offset by an unfavorable ruling from the finnish supreme administrative court. the higher effective tax rate in 2015 when compared with 2014 was primarily due to a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits in 2014. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. although no new u.s. tax legislation has been enacted, we are currently assessing the impact various tax reform proposals will have on our consolidated financial statements. see note 10, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our tax matters. 41 table of contents non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of results as the items described below do not reflect ongoing operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they highlight trends more clearly in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our ongoing operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting for the following items: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets: we amortize intangible assets acquired in connection with various acquisitions. in the first quarter of 2015, nasdaq began excluding the amortization of acquired intangible assets when evaluating the performance of our businesses and its managers and when allocating resources amongst the businesses. our non-gaap and operating income metrics are used internally and by our investors to measure the ongoing operating performance of nasdaq. management's view of operating performance has not changed significantly from prior periods. however, intangible asset amortization expense can vary from period to period due to episodic acquisitions completed, rather than from our ongoing business operations. as such, if intangible asset amortization is included in performance measures, it is more difficult to assess the day-to-day operating performance of the businesses, the relative operating performance of the businesses between periods, and the earnings power of nasdaq. in connection with this change to the calculation of our internal performance measures in the first quarter of 2015, we also aligned our external reporting with these same performance measures. historical periods were restated to conform to the current presentation. performance measures excluding intangible asset amortization therefore, provide investors with a more useful representation of our businesses' ongoing activity in each period. restructuring charges: restructuring charges are associated with our 2015 restructuring plan to improve performance, cut costs and reduce spending and are primarily related to (i) the rebranding of our company name from the nasdaq omx group, inc. to nasdaq, inc., (ii) severance and other termination benefits, (iii) costs to vacate duplicate facilities, and (iv) asset impairment charges. we exclude these restructuring costs because these costs do not reflect future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparison of nasdaq's performance between periods. merger and strategic initiatives expense: we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed a number of acquisitions in recent years which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third party transaction costs. the frequency and the amount of such expenses vary significantly based on the size, timing and complexity of the transaction. accordingly, we exclude these costs for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures which provide a more meaningful analysis of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparisons in nasdaq's performance between periods. asset impairment charges: intangible assets that have indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment at least annually, or when indicators of impairment are present. in december 2 016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million related to the full write-off of the espeed trade name. the impairment charge was the result of a decline in operating performance and the rebranding of our fixed income business. in 2014, we recorded a non-cash asset impairment charge of $38 million related to an acquired intangible asset associated with customer relationships. the impairment resulted primarily from changes in forecasted revenues associated with the acquired customer list of our espeed business. in 2014, we also recorded a non-cash asset impairment charge related to certain technology assets of $11 million. we exclude these charges because they do not reflect future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparison of nasdaq's performance between periods. other significant items: we have excluded certain other charges or gains that are the result of other non-comparable events to measure operating performance. for 2016, other significant items primarily included a regulatory fine received by our exchange in stockholm and nasdaq clearing, accelerated expense due to the retirement of the company's former ceo 42 table of contents for equity awards previously granted, the release of a sublease loss reserve due to the early exit of a facility, and the impact of the write-off of an equity method investment, partially offset by a gain resulting from the sale of a percentage of a separate equity method investment. for 2015, other significant items included income from our equity investment in occ where we were not able to determine what our share of occ's income was for the year ended december 31, 2014 until the first quarter of 2015, when financial statements were made available to us. as a result, we recorded other income in the first quarter of 2015 relating to our share of occ's income for the year ended december 31, 2014. for 2015, other significant adjustments also included the reversal of a vat refund. for 2014, other significant items included extinguishment of debt, a sublease loss reserve and special legal expense. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the financial results of nasdaq. * * * * * * the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 108 $ 0.64 $ 428 $ 2.50 $ 414 $ 2.39 non-gaap adjustments: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 82 0.49 62 0.36 69 0.40 restructuring charges 41 0.24 172 1.00 merger and strategic initiatives 76 0.45 10 0.06 81 0.47 asset impairment charges 578 3.42 49 0.28 regulatory matter 6 0.04 executive compensation 12 0.07 income from occ equity investment (13 ) (0.08 ) reversal vat refund 12 0.07 extinguishment of debt 11 0.07 sublease loss reserve (1 ) (0.01 ) 11 0.07 special legal expense 2 0.01 other 6 0.04 3 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (287 ) (1.70 ) (90 ) (0.52 ) (98 ) (0.56 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 513 3.04 153 0.89 128 0.74 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 621 $ 3.68 $ 581 $ 3.39 $ 542 $ 3.13 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 168,800,997 171,283,271 173,018,849 ____________ (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. also included in this adjustment for the year ended december 31, 2016 is $27 million in tax expense associated with an unfavorable decision from the finnish supreme administrative court on a tax position. for the year ended december 31, 2014 this amount includes $23 million associated with the recognition of a previously unrecognized tax benefit. 43 table of contents liquidity and capital resources historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock annually which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq's total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. in may 2016, nasdaq issued the 2023 notes and in june 2016, nasdaq issued the 2026 notes. we used the majority of the net proceeds from the 2023 notes of $664 million and the 2026 notes of $495 million to fund the acquisition of ise and related expenses. see 3.85% senior unsecured notes, and 1.75% senior unsecured notes, of note 9, debt obligations, and acquisition of ise, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in march 2016, nasdaq entered into the 2016 credit facility which provides for a $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility. in march 2016, loans in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million were drawn under the 2016 credit facility and the net proceeds of $399 million were used to partially repay amounts outstanding under the revolving credit commitment of the 2014 credit facility. as of december 31, 2016, the balance of $399 million reflects the aggregate principal amount, less the unamortized debt issuance costs. see 2016 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. our 2014 credit facility consists of a $750 million revolving credit commitment (with sublimits for non-dollar borrowings, swingline borrowings and letters of credit). as of december 31, 2016, availability under the revolving credit commitment was $749 million. see 2014 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations and availability under our revolving credit commitment will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses, can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $478 million at december 31, 2016, compared with $340 million at december 31, 2015, an increase of $138 million. current asset balance changes increased working capital by $1,300 million, with increases in default funds and margin deposits, receivables, net, cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, at fair value, and other current assets, partially offset by a decrease in restricted cash. current liability balance changes decreased working capital by $1,162 million, due to increases in default funds and margin deposits, accrued personnel costs, deferred revenue, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and section 31 fees payable to the sec, partially offset by a decrease in other current liabilities. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facilities that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates under our credit facilities; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 403 $ 301 restricted cash 15 56 financial investments, at fair value 245 201 total financial assets $ 663 $ 558 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents includes all non-restricted cash in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2016, our cash and cash equivalents of $403 million were primarily invested in bank deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt 44 table of contents obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2016 increased $102 million from december 31, 2015 primarily due to net cash provided by operating and financing activities, partially offset by net cash used in investing activities. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, restricted cash is restricted from withdrawal due to a contractual requirement or not available for general use. restricted cash was $15 million as of december 31, 2016 and $56 million as of december 31, 2015, a decrease of $41 million . the decrease is primarily due to lower restricted cash due to a decline in customer funds held in connection with privately negotiated securities transactions. restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $102 million as of december 31, 2016 and $105 million as of december 31, 2015. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $301 million as of december 31, 2016 and $196 million as of december 31, 2015. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash dividends on common stock the following table shows quarterly cash dividends declared per common share on our outstanding common stock: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 first quarter $ 0.25 $ 0.15 second quarter 0.32 0.25 third quarter 0.32 0.25 fourth quarter 0.32 0.25 total $ 1.21 $ 0.90 see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $245 million as of december 31, 2016 and $201 million as of december 31, 2015 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities. of these securities, $172 million as of december 31, 2016 and $166 million as of december 31, 2015 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements, primarily for our clearing operations at nasdaq clearing. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading investment securities. * * * * * * debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) 5.25% senior unsecured notes january 2018 $ 369 $ 368 $750 million revolving credit commitment november 2019 258 $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility november 2019 399 5.55% senior unsecured notes january 2020 598 597 3.875% senior unsecured notes june 2021 625 646 1.75% senior unsecured notes may 2023 622 4.25% senior unsecured notes june 2024 495 495 3.85% senior unsecured notes june 2026 495 total long-term debt obligations $ 3,603 $ 2,364 45 table of contents in addition to the $750 million revolving credit commitment and $400 million term loan facility, we also have other credit facilities related to our nasdaq clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity. credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, totaled $170 million at december 31, 2016 and $202 million december 31, 2015 , in available liquidity, none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2016, our required regulatory capital of $172 million is primarily comprised of highly rated european government debt securities that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. broker-dealer net capital requirements our operating broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx, and nasdaq capital markets advisory are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. the following table summarizes the net capital requirements for our broker-dealer subsidiaries as of december 31, 2016: broker-dealer subsidiaries total net capital required minimum net capital excess capital (in millions) nasdaq execution services $ 10.2 $ 0.3 $ 9.9 execution access 44.0 0.5 43.5 npm securities 0.3 0.3 smtx 1.2 0.3 0.9 nasdaq capital markets advisory 0.6 0.3 0.3 other capital requirements nasdaq execution services nasdaq execution services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with occ. nasdaq cxc as a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada, nasdaq cxc must comply with its dealer member rules which are intended to ensure general financial soundness and liquidity. under these rules, nasdaq cxc is required to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2016, nasdaq cxc was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.2 million and had total net capital of approximately $5.8 million, or $5.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. 46 table of contents cash flow analysis the following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 722 $ 682 $ 632 5.9 % 7.9 % investing activities (1,657 ) (435 ) (155 ) 280.9 % 180.6 % financing activities 1,002 (355 ) (460 ) (382.3 )% (22.8 )% effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (6 ) (11 ) (23 ) (45.5 )% (52.2 )% net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 61 (119 ) (6 ) (151.3 )% 1,883.3 % cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 357 476 482 (25.0 )% (1.2 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 418 $ 357 $ 476 17.1 % (25.0 )% net cash provided by operating activities net cash provided by operating activities increased $40 million in 2016 compared with 2015 and increased $50 million in 2015 compared with 2014. the increases were primarily due to additional cash flows from our acquisitions completed during 2016 and 2015 and higher cash flows from our listing services business primarily due to an increase in annual renewal fees, partially offset by an increase in cash payments related to merger and strategic initiatives expense associated with our 2016 and 2015 acquisitions. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities increased $1,222 million in 2016 compared with 2015 and increased $280 million in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily due to an increase in cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired of $1,460 million in 2016 and $226 million in 2015. net cash provided by (used in) financing activities net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 primarily consisted of net proceeds of $2,456 million, of which $1,159 million related to the issuances of our 2023 notes and 2026 notes to fund our acquisition of ise, $399 million related to net proceeds from our 2016 credit facility and $898 million related to proceeds from utilization of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility to partially fund our acquisitions of boardvantage, marketwired and nasdaq cxc, and other general corporate purposes. these proceeds were partially offset by the repayment of $1,156 million on the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility. we also used $200 million of cash to pay cash dividends on our common stock and $100 million of cash to repurchase our common stock. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily consisted of $377 million of cash used to repurchase our common stock, the repayment of $369 million on the revolving credit commitment of our 2014 credit facility, and $149 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock, partially offset by $506 million from the partial utilization of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility to partially fund our acquisition of dwa and other general corporate purposes. see 2016 acquisitions, and 2015 acquisitions, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisitions. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. see share repurchase program, and cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program and cash dividends paid on our common stock. 47 table of contents contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2016 : payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 4,351 $ 139 $ 1,019 $ 1,400 $ 1,793 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 412 73 134 97 108 other obligations (3) 32 32 total $ 4,795 $ 244 $ 1,153 $ 1,497 $ 1,901 ____________ (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2016 , an interest rate of 2.84% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2016 credit facility. all other debt obligations were primarily calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2016 . see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) other obligations primarily consist of potential future escrow agreement payments related to prior acquisitions as well as other service agreement payments. * * * * * * no n-cash contingent consideration as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, we have agreed to future annual issuances of 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq's total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. off-balance sheet arrangements for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; note 17, leases, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our lease commitments; and note 18, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of: guarantees issued and credit facilities available; lease commitments; other guarantees; non-cash contingent consideration; escrow agreements; routing brokerage activities; litigation; and tax audits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations which are discussed below. 48 table of contents financial investments as of december 31, 2016 , our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2016 , the fair value of this portfolio would have declined by $6 million. debt obligations as of december 31, 2016 , substantially all of our debt obligations are fixed-rate obligations. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of borrowings under our 2016 credit facility and the 2014 credit facility, as these facilities have variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2016 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our 2014 credit facility. the principal amount outstanding under the 2016 credit facility was $400 million. a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on the 2016 credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $4 million based on borrowings as of december 31, 2016 . * * * * * * foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 is presented in the following tables: euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2016 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1064 0.1168 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 10.0 % 8.5 % 5.9 % 75.6 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 16.5 % 5.2 % (8.3 )% 86.6 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (23 ) $ (19 ) $ (14 ) $ $ (56 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14 ) $ (4 ) $ (7 ) $ $ (25 ) euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2015 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1097 0.1186 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 10.4 % 8.5 % 4.4 % 76.7 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income (1) 20.3 % (18.3 )% (8.1 )% 106.1 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (22 ) $ (18 ) $ (9 ) $ $ (49 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (13 ) $ (6 ) $ $ (34 ) ____________ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. n/a not applicable. (1) the 2015 percentage of operating income in swedish krona was impacted by restructuring charges recorded during 2015 as a majority of these charges were recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries' net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries' non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars 49 table of contents for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2016 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,111 $ (311 ) norwegian krone 188 (19 ) canadian dollar 181 (18 ) british pound 118 (12 ) euro 102 (10 ) australian dollar 81 (8 ) ____________ (1) includes goodwill of $2,400 million and intangible assets, net of $586 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary nasdaq execution services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services' arrangements. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services' clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services' customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the trading platform for our nasdaq fixed income business to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2016, we have contributed $20 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. all of execution access' obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq clearing. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties' creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 50 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition corporate services revenues listing services revenues listing services revenues primarily include annual renewal fees, initial listing fees, and listing of additional shares fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our five reporting units are the market services segment, the two businesses comprising the corporate services segment: corporate solutions and listing services, the information services segment, and the market technology segment. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2016 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in fasb asc topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, and other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test consists of two steps performed at the reporting unit level. the first step compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the reporting unit's estimated fair value exceeds its estimated carrying amount, goodwill is not impaired. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. for our annual test of goodwill impairment in 2016, we considered the results of prior quantitative tests performed on our reporting units and also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units. 51 table of contents the following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments at the time of our 2016 annual impairment: october 1, 2016 (in millions) market services $ 3,485 corporate services 690 information services 1,863 market technology 168 $ 6,206 we utilized the qualitative screen for our market services, listing services, information services and market technology reporting units, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts at the time of the last quantitative test were significant. the last quantitative tests were in 2013 for the listing services, information services and market technology reporting units and in 2015 for the market services reporting unit. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we evaluated the performance of each of these reporting units since the last quantitative test, as well as future financial projections to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in asc topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our market services, listing services, information services and market technology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended december 31, 2016. although the fair value of our corporate solutions reporting unit also exceeded its carrying amount by more than 10.0% in our 2015 and 2014 annual goodwill impairment tests, since the excess of fair value over the carrying amount has historically been less than our other reporting units, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for this reporting unit. we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for this reporting unit and determined that the fair value of our corporate solutions reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount by more than 10.0%. as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. the fair value of our corporate solutions reporting unit was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. the market approach estimates fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the corporate solutions reporting unit's operating performance. the multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to the corporate solutions reporting unit. the market approach requires management's judgment to determine several valuation inputs, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. the control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our corporate solutions reporting unit based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. we determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management's estimate of the long-term growth of the business. we then discounted the projected cash flows using the appropriate weighted average cost of capital for the corporate solutions reporting unit. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management's judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecasts of cash flows generated by our corporate solutions reporting unit or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the corporate solutions reporting unit would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2016 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. 52 table of contents as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded the following pre-tax, non-cash indefinite-lived asset impairment charges during 2016 and 2015: december 2016: $578 million to write off the full value of the espeed trade name; and march 2015: $119 million - in connection with our global rebranding initiative, we decided to change our company name from the nasdaq omx group, inc. to nasdaq, inc., which became effective in the third quarter of 2015. in connection with this action, we decided to discontinue the use of the omx trade name, and therefore wrote off the full value of the trade name. these charges did not impact the company's consolidated cash flows, liquidity, or capital resources. the write off of the espeed trade name is recorded in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income for 2016 and the write off of the omx trade name is recorded in restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income for 2015. there were no other impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. other long-lived assets and related impairment we review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, equity and cost method investments, as well as property and equipment for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. among our finite-lived intangible assets, we performed an undiscounted cash flow analysis to test whether the espeed customer relationship intangible asset was recoverable as we concluded that indicators of impairment were present in the current year as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2016, the espeed customer relationship intangible asset had a remaining net book value of $57 million. the results of the recoverability test indicated that the estimated future undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount of the asset by a significant amount. therefore, no impairment charge was recorded in 2016. we will continue to monitor potential triggering events. any changes in these factors could result in further testing for recoverability, and, if it is determined that the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable, an impairment of the asset would then be recorded. we evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment. as of december 31, 2016, the estimated fair value of our investment in the order machine was less than the carrying amount and management considered the decline in value to be other-than-temporary. as a result, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $7 million in december 2016 to write off the full value of the investment. this charge is recorded in net income from unconsolidated investees in the consolidated statements of income. no other impairments of equity method investments were recorded in 2016, 2015 or 2014. during 2014, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $38 million. see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, for further discussion of impairment charges recorded on our finite-lived intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax 53 table of contents matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. recent accounting pronouncements see recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and recently issued accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 14 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. * * * * * * nasdaq intends to use its website, ir.nasdaq.com, as a means for disclosing material non-public information and for complying with sec regulation fd and other disclosure obligations. these disclosures will be included on nasdaq's website under investor relations. iv table of contents forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, envisions, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance, and other future developments identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our strategy, growth forecasts and 2018 outlook; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures or other transactional activities; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including transactional activities and other strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products, order backlog and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity and capital; and any litigation, or any regulatory or government investigation or action, to which we are or could become a party. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or divest sold businesses or assets, including the fact that any integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and we may be unable to realize synergies from business combinations, acquisitions, divestitures or other transactional activities; loss of significant trading and clearing volumes or values, fees, market share, listed companies, data products customers or other customers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address cybersecurity risks; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties; any significant error in our operational processes; our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the litigation or regulatory areas, or in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nasdaq, inc. is a leading provider of trading, clearing, marketplace technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public and private company services. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, trade management services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions, and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting equity derivative trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading, trading surveillance and many other functions. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. in february 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. in connection with this acquisition, we changed our corporate name to the nasdaq omx group, inc. we operated under this name until we rebranded our business as nasdaq, inc. in 2015. since 2008, in addition to growing organically, we have executed multiple acquisitions that have expanded our operations globally and increasingly diversified our product and service offerings. our most recent significant acquisitions include ise in 2016 and evestment in 2017. 2017 strategic review in 2017, nasdaq completed a review of its strategy for long-term growth. we examined key macroeconomic, regulatory and technology trends, consulted with our clients about short- and long-term trends in their businesses and assessed the competitive landscape. we identified the following key trends that we believe will shape our future opportunities. key trends marketplace economy . as technology evolves, market trends suggest that commerce will increasingly be transacted electronically. auctions and mechanisms that allow two-sided price negotiations and require high-quality market oversight will be prevalent. this is already true today across many asset classes inside and outside the financial markets. in addition, financial institutions are seeking to digitize many processes to gain efficiencies. data explosion . we have seen, and expect to continue to see, a proliferation of data from many new and non-traditional sources that impact our clients' interactions with the capital markets. we expect that our clients will seek new analytical capabilities, including machine intelligence, to transform raw data into market insights. this, in turn, is expected to trigger opportunities for those who create data or harness its power. evolution of investment management . new competitive dynamics among all types of asset managers are increasing their need to differentiate in order to compete for assets. alternative investment and financing options are becoming more accessible. we expect this evolution to translate to greater technology needs, increasing utilization of quantitative data and analytics to facilitate more advanced investing styles and a growing demand for compliance and surveillance solutions. banks embrace change as they evolve . before the credit crisis, global banks relied heavily on their own proprietary technology. since then, these institutions have begun to embrace alternative operational constructs, including technology or outsourcing partnerships, especially in market and regulatory technology. our vision, mission and strategy as a result of the strategic review, we restated our vision, mission and strategy, with the full review and approval of our board of directors. our vision, mission and strategy embrace our strengths to focus on our clients and their evolving needs. our vision : reimagining markets to realize the potential of tomorrow. our mission : we bring together ingenuity, integrity and insights to deliver markets that accelerate economic progress and empower people to achieve their greatest ambitions. our strategy : under our renewed strategic direction, we plan to maximize the resources, people and capital allocated to our biggest growth opportunities, particularly in our market technology and information services businesses. we also commit to sustaining the special marketplace platform businesses that are core to nasdaq, and to reduce capital and resources in areas that are not as strategic to our clients and do not have significant growth potential within nasdaq. increasing investment in businesses where we see the highest growth opportunity . we intend to increase investment in areas that we believe solve our clients' biggest challenges and generate growth for our stockholders. these businesses include: our market technology segment, including our regulatory technology businesses; the data analytics business 2 table of contents within our information services segment; and npm, within our corporate services segment. we have already begun this effort through our 2017 acquisitions of evestment and sybenetix, which are part of our information services and market technology segments, respectively. we also are investing further in the market technology segment through the nasdaq financial framework, the expansion of our smarts products and customers and our efforts to commercialize disruptive technologies, including blockchain, machine intelligence and the cloud. maintaining investment in our core . we intend to maintain investments in our core businesses, notably our foundational trading and listings businesses and related market data business. optimizing slower growth businesses . we intend to review areas that are not critical to our core. in these areas, we expect to target resiliency and efficiency versus growth, and thus free up resources to redirect toward greater opportunities. we recently entered into a definitive agreement to sell the public relations (public relations solutions) and webcasting and webhosting (digital media services) products and services within our corporate solutions business to west corporation. the closing of this transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, is projected to occur in the second quarter of 2018. any additional future cash flow resulting from the implementation of the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in december 2017 will be considered when evaluating our capital allocation priorities described above. products and services we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, corporate services, information services and market technology. see note 1, organization and nature of operations, and note 20, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, ficc and trade management services businesses. equity derivative trading and clearing we operate six electronic options exchanges in the u.s.: nasdaq phlx, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq bx options, nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx. these exchanges facilitate the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the u.s. market for multiply-listed options on equities and etfs. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the ccp. nasdaq clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges: the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, atss and registered securities exchanges. in addition, we operate three markets for the trading of canadian-listed securities. in europe, nasdaq operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and reykjavik (iceland). we also operate exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). collectively, the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges offer trading in cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and etfs. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. in addition, nasdaq owns two central securities depositories that provide services in the baltic countries and iceland. ficc our ficc business includes the nasdaq fixed income business, nfx and nasdaq commodities. the u.s. portion of nasdaq fixed income includes an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities. through this business, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. the european portion of nasdaq fixed income provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland and iceland. nasdaq stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 8,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates 3 table of contents the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq clearing for ccp clearing. nasdaq clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq's worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. nasdaq commodities' offerings include oil, power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. these products are listed on two of nasdaq's derivatives exchanges. nasdaq oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for european products and freight. all trades with nasdaq oslo asa are subject to clearing with nasdaq clearing, which is a ccp authorized under emir by the sfsa to conduct clearing operations. we also operate nfx, which is a u.s. based designated contract market authorized by the cftc. nfx currently lists cash-settled energy derivatives based on key energy benchmarks including oil, natural gas and u.s. power. all trades with nfx are subject to clearing with occ. trade management services we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems' scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, drop functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data centers. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company's back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication (swift) to deposit banks. corporate services corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges and private companies. we help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. we currently provide corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations . we offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools, including investor relations webcasting, press release services, and websites. our solutions, including our nasdaq ir insight platform, allow investor relations officers to manage their investor relations programs using a variety of tools and information to understand their investor base, manage meetings and read research, consensus estimates and news while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. board &amp; leadership. we offer secure collaboration platforms for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential documents and initiatives. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. public relations solutions. we offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. we provide traditional and social media contacts databases, backed by our internal research analysts. our press release distribution network allows clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. our suite of technology solutions and expert analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. digital media services. we offer a platform and services which enable our customers to produce webcasts for a wide range of applications, including investor relations, public relations, marketing and internal communications. we also provide webhosting services. in connection with our strategic direction and the decision to reorient the company, we have entered into a definitive 4 table of contents agreement to sell the public relations (public relations solutions) and webcasting and webhosting (digital media services) products and services within our corporate solutions business to west corporation. the closing of this transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, is projected to occur in the second quarter of 2018. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2017, a total of 2,949 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,413 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 819 on the nasdaq global market and 717 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2017, the nasdaq stock market attracted 268 new listings, including 136 ipos, 63% of u.s. ipos in 2017. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange llc, or nyse, and nyse american llc, or nyse american 11 ipos 136 upgrades from otc 43 etps and other listings 78 total 268 the 11 nyse- or nyse american-listed companies that switched to the nasdaq stock market, represented approximately $217.8 billion in market capitalization. notable switches included pepsico, inc., principal financial group, inc., and workday, inc. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2017, a total of 984 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etps, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2017, a total of 108 new companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. in addition, 10 companies upgraded their listings from nasdaq first north to the nordic and baltic exchanges. our listing services business also includes npm, which provides liquidity solutions for private companies. npm's platform helps employees, investors, companies, funds and institutions execute transactions, whether for private companies, private investment funds, or other private asset classes. in addition, npm now offers alternatives, which addresses the challenges of liquidity in alternative investments funds. information services our information services segment includes our data products and our index licensing and services businesses. data products our data products business sells and distributes historical and real-time quote and trade information to the sell-side, the buy-side, retail online brokers, proprietary trading shops, other venues, internet portals and data distributors. our data products enhance transparency of market activity within our exchanges and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors globally. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to our customers who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every displayed price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx, nasdaq psx, nasdaq fixed income and other nordic markets. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost alternative to the industry level 1 feed, ultrafeed, a normalized high speed, and consolidated data feed offering. we also provide a plethora of other data, including data relating to our 6 u.s. options exchanges, nordic and u.s. futures, nordic commodities, u.s. treasuries, global indexes and global mutual funds. our data products business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the plan administrators sell quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who 5 table of contents then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, the plan administrators distribute the tape revenues to the respective plan participants based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. much like the u.s. products, european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview, and nordic fixed income totalview, level 2, analytics and fixings. we also provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch/global index file delivery service, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. in 2017, nasdaq acquired evestment, a leading content and analytics provider used by asset managers, investment consultants and asset owners to help facilitate institutional investment decisions. evestment provides a flexible suite of cloud-based solutions to help the institutional investing community identify and capitalize on global investment trends and select and monitor investment managers. evestment's products also enable asset managers to market their funds worldwide. index licensing and services our index licensing and services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. we also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. as of december 31, 2017, we had 324 etps licensed to nasdaq's indexes which had $167 billion of assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. we also operate the nasdaq global index family, which includes more than 40,000 indexes. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and approximately 9,000 securities. dwa, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies, provides model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and strengthens nasdaq's position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. as of december 31, 2017, there are $70 billion in assets under management in etps that track nasdaq smart beta indexes. market technology powering more than 90 marketplaces in 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. our market technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. during 2017, we continued to invest in the nasdaq financial framework, which is our market technology modular architecture that will provide next generation capital market capabilities, including the integration of blockchain technology across the issuance and settlement of securities, as well as cloud-enabled trading and clearing. nasdaq's market technology is utilized by, among others, asx limited, bolsa de valores de colombia, borsa stanbul a. ., borse dubai limited, bursa malaysia berhad, egyptian exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing limited, japan exchange group, inc., nex group plc, sbi japannext co., ltd., singapore exchange ltd., six swiss exchange ltd and tokyo commodity exchange, inc. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services. our risk &amp; surveillance solutions include: smarts, which is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies; and tradeguard, which is a suite of products that offer a real-time, multi-tiered risk solution that integrates pre-, at- and on-trade risk management, including margining. in 2017, we acquired sybenetix, a leading surveillance provider that combines behavioral analytics and cognitive computing with financial markets expertise. we expect the addition of sybenetix to our risk &amp; surveillance suite of solutions to allow us to bring 6 table of contents deeper technology savviness and expertise to buy-side compliance officers across the global capital markets. finally, through bwise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. we have established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems, including risks associated with cybersecurity. this program is focused on (i) identifying areas for improvement in systems and (ii) implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. we have continued our focus on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. see item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion. core technology. the nasdaq financial framework is nasdaq's approach to delivering end-to-end solutions for market infrastructure operators, buy-side firms, sell-side firms and other non-financial markets. the framework consists of a single operational core platform that ties together nasdaq's portfolio of functionality across the trade lifecycle, in an open framework whereby exchanges, clearinghouses, csds and other entities can easily integrate nasdaq's business applications with each other, as well as other third-party solutions. in addition to being able to integrate a broad range of business functions, the nasdaq financial framework enables end users to leverage recent technology developments, such as blockchain and machine learning. data centers. nasdaq utilizes data center facilities in key global regions to support our markets, technology services, disaster recovery capabilities and operations centers. in 2017, we continued to migrate systems to our facility in chicago, as well as added and consolidated locations as a result of acquisitions and product enhancements. technology initiatives . during 2017, our blockchain initiative began moving from technology validation to commercialization. blockchain capabilities are now incorporated in the nasdaq financial framework, and a number of applications leveraging blockchain (e.g., for voting, issuance and settlement) are available. market technology also entered into certain client agreements for blockchain-based solutions, including with the six swiss exchange ltd, nyiax, inc. and strate (pty) ltd, the south african csd. competition market services we face intense competition in north america and europe in businesses that comprise our market services segment. we seek to provide market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, speed of execution, high levels of customer service, and efficient pricing. in both north america and europe, our competitors include other exchange operators, operators of non-exchange (less-heavily regulated) trading systems and banks and brokerages that operate their own internal trading pools and platforms. registered exchanges that compete with our options markets in the u.s. include exchanges operated by: cboe global markets, inc., or cboe; miami international holdings, inc., or miami; and intercontinental exchange, inc., or ice. registered exchanges competing with our cash equities markets in the u.s. include exchanges operated by cboe and ice. in addition to competition from these exchanges in equities, we face competition from atss and other less-heavily regulated broker-owned systems, some of which are also known as dark pools, and from other types of otc trading. registered exchanges that compete with our cash equities markets in europe include exchanges operated by: cboe; euronext n.v.; deutsche b rse a.g.; and london stock exchange group plc, or lse. we also intensely compete with mtfs, such as that operated by turquoise global holdings limited. our competitors in the trading and clearing of options and futures on european equities include: the eurex group companies, or eurex; ice futures europe; and the mtf operated by turquoise global holdings limited. in addition to competition from these exchanges and mtfs in equities, we face competition from other broker-owned systems, some of which are also known as systematic internalizers, and from other types of otc trading. competition among exchanges for trading european equity derivatives tends to occur where there is competition in the trading of the underlying equities. in addition to exchange-based competition, we face competition from otc derivative markets. the implementation of mifid ii and mifir over the next several years is expected to lead to further competitive pressure on our european trading business. mtfs are already attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. with the regulatory environment likely to become more favorable to alternative trading venues, we expect such venues to compete aggressively for the trading of equity securities listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems pursuing block business will also remain active in europe. we also expect trading on systematic internalizers to increase markedly as volume migrates from other types of trading venues. in responding to current and potential competition, we constantly review our pricing and product offerings. registered exchanges that compete with our cash equities markets in canada include: aequitas neo exchange; canadian securities exchange; toronto stock exchange, or tsx; tsx venture exchange; and tsx alpha exchange. we also compete with atss, such as the omega ats. competition is intense, and we also face competition from markets in the u.s. our ficc business also operates in an intensely competitive environment. our trading platform for benchmark u.s. treasuries faces competition from both long-established competitors, such as brokertec, and newly emerging electronic and voice brokerages, and the operating environment remains extremely challenging. our european fixed income products 7 table of contents and services are subject to relentless competitive pressure from otc dealers as well as exchanges. our suite of commodity-related products and services is in many cases designed to challenge the more established players. our trade management services business competes with other exchange operators, extranet providers, and data center providers. corporate services in our corporate solutions business, competition is varied and can be fragmented. for our investor relations services business, there are many regional competitors and relatively few global providers. other exchange operators are partnering with firms that have capabilities in this area and seeking to acquire relevant assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside listing services. the competitive landscape for our board &amp; leadership business varies by customer sector and geography. most participants offer software-as-a-service solutions that are supported by a data center strategy. some firms offer specialized services that focus on a single niche sector. the larger players often offer additional services. customers frequently seek single-source providers that are able to address a broad range of needs within a single platform. the competitive landscape for our public relations solutions business includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers, which offer wire distribution along with audience targeting, monitoring and analytics services, and a large number of regional and niche providers. in our digital media services business, competition is fragmented and includes firms that address enterprise buyers, offering them either managed or self-service capabilities. our listing services business in both the u.s. and europe provides a means of facilitating capital formation through public capital markets. there are competing ways of raising capital, and we seek to demonstrate the benefits of listing shares on an exchange. our primary competitor for larger company stock share listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse american for listing of shares of smaller companies. bats bzx exchange, inc. competes for etp listings. the nasdaq stock market competes with local and international markets located outside the u.s. for listings of equity securities of both u.s. and non-u.s. companies that choose to list (or dual-list) outside of their home country. for example, the nasdaq stock market competes for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the stock exchange of hong kong limited. the listings services business in europe is characterized by a large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges, which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, competing european exchanges that frequently attract many listings from outside their respective home countries include lse, euronext n.v. and deutsche b rse a.g. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies seeking capital or liquidity from public capital markets are able to raise capital without a regulated market listing and can consider trading their shares on smaller markets and quoting facilities. information services our data products business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange's systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors to provide information to market participants. examples of our competitors in proprietary data products are ice, cboe, tsx, s&amp;p global inc. and dow jones &amp; company. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on securities listed on other markets. our index licensing and services business faces competition from providers of various competing financial indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers. market technology the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally, sometimes aided by consultants, has changed, as many operators have recognized the cost-savings made possible by buying technology from third parties. as a result, two types of competitors have emerged in our market technology segment: exchange operators and technology providers unaffiliated with exchanges. these organizations make available a range of off-the-shelf technology, including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination, and offer customization and operation expertise. there is a wide range of providers that compete with us in surveillance, as well as governance, risk and compliance solutions. in surveillance, standardization of products and budget pressures drive customers to focus on pricing. in governance, risk and compliance, our products must compete with solutions that are often part of larger suites, such as those related to information technology management or general business management. 8 table of contents market conditions in this segment are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment and innovation a necessity. intellectual property we believe that our intellectual property assets are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively create and maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets, including patents and patent applications related to our innovations, products and services; trademarks related to our brands, products and services; copyrights in software and creative content; trade secrets; and through other intellectual property rights, licenses of various kinds and contractual provisions. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and utilize non-disclosure agreements with third parties with whom we conduct business in order to secure and protect our proprietary rights and to limit access to, and disclosure of, our proprietary information. we own, or have licensed, rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the u.s. and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark that we actively seek to protect in the u.s. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s. and in many other jurisdictions across the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of our products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. no single patent is in itself core to the operations of nasdaq or any of its principal business areas. corporate venture practice in 2017, nasdaq established a corporate venture practice to invest primarily in financial technology companies. nasdaq envisions that investments made through the venture practice will further our organic research and development efforts, and accelerate our path to commercial viability, in the same way previous investments have supported our blockchain and machine intelligence initiatives. nasdaq expects that the capital invested will be modest and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or existing capital return or deployment priorities. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., canada and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. sros conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation's securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our sros and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our sros relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our sros to carry out their responsibilities under the exchange act. although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro's own rules, impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an sro, the sec must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act. moreover, an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and six options markets in the u.s. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market's sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx's sro license; nasdaq psx and nasdaq phlx pursuant to nasdaq phlx's sro license; and nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx, each under their own sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining 9 table of contents to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of our exchanges are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we also are subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros' rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to our markets, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company's compliance with the nasdaq stock market's financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on the nasdaq stock market to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer's on-going compliance with the nasdaq stock market's continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc, or nasdaq execution services, currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq's u.s. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. execution access llc, or execution access, operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including nasdaq fixed income's registered ats for u.s. treasury securities. npm securities, llc operates an ats involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under section 12 of the exchange act), including acting as the buyer's and seller's agent to facilitate private placement and mutual funds' (including closed-end and interval funds') transactions on the ats. smtx, llc, or smtx, also operates as a broker-dealer for npm and acts as intermediary in connection with private non-capital raising transactions. finally, nasdaq capital markets advisory llc, or nasdaq capital markets advisory, acts as a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during ipos and various other offerings. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of finra and most of the registered national securities exchanges in the u.s. execution access is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 22 states and the u.s. virgin islands based on business requirements. additionally, execution access is a finra member organization. execution access operates an sec registered ats, which is part of nasdaq fixed income, to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access is an introducing broker for trades matched on this ats. the trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. npm securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands. additionally, npm securities is a finra member organization. npm securities does not hold funds or securities. funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. the issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form. smtx is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in 50 states and the district of columbia based on business requirements. additionally, smtx is a finra member organization. npm provides the technological tools and website hosting on a platform that issuers may use for administrative purposes, document execution, handling and storage, and to facilitate communications with participants of tender offers and merger and acquisition transactions. smtx's role in these transactions is to act as depository agent to receive and promptly transmit tenders of securities and transaction 10 table of contents closing funds, and a paying agent to wire funds to participants at the closing. nasdaq capital markets advisory is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and the state of new york based on business requirements. additionally, nasdaq capital markets advisory is a finra member organization. nasdaq capital markets advisory acts as a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during their initial public offerings, follow-on equity offerings, at-the-market equity offerings, private placement offerings and regulation a equity offerings. nasdaq capital markets advisory's role is limited to providing a company, or an investment bank on behalf of a company, with reports, profiles and other pertinent advisory information. nasdaq capital markets advisory does not act as an underwriter, syndicate group member or placement agent for any company, select underwriters or syndicate group members, hold funds or securities, accept investor indications of interest, solicit investors or decide which investors receive securities on behalf of a company. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer's business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers' purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer's dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec's financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory. as registered broker-dealers, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2017, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx and nasdaq capital markets advisory were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . our sros have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of our sros and their members; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, 11 table of contents consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market serves as the processor for the utp plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in october 2015. the nasdaq stock market also serves as the administrator for the utp plan. as the processor, the nasdaq stock market performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the utp plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the exchange act and regulation nms. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, the nasdaq stock market has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. as the administrator, the nasdaq stock market manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members. regulation sci. regulation sci is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. we implemented an inter-disciplinary program to ensure compliance with regulation sci. new regulation sci policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was rolled out to ensure compliance. regulation of registered investment advisor subsidiary. our subsidiary dwa is an investment advisor registered with the sec under the investment advisors act of 1940. in this capacity, dwa is subject to oversight and inspections by the sec. among other things, registered investment advisors like dwa must comply with certain disclosure obligations, advertising and fee restrictions and requirements relating to client suitability and custody of funds and securities. registered investment advisors are also subject to anti-fraud provisions under both federal and state law. cftc regulation. we also operate nfx, a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. the national futures association provides regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. as a designated contract market, nfx is required to comply on an ongoing basis with 23 core principles set forth in section 5(d) of the commodity exchange act and with part 38 of the cftc's regulations. nfx is also subject to the requirements of part 40 of the cftc's regulations with respect to the adoption of new rules or rule amendments and the listing of new products. nfx is subject to cftc rule enforcement reviews conducted by the cftc's division of market oversight. rule enforcement reviews may examine a designated contract market's audit trail, trade practice surveillance, disciplinary and dispute resolution programs for compliance with the relevant core principles. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the u.s. and their customers. canadian regulation regulation of nasdaq canada and its three markets is performed by the canadian securities administrators, an umbrella organization of canada's provincial and territorial securities regulators. operating in ontario, nasdaq canada's lead regulator is the ontario securities commission. as an approved ats, nasdaq canada is subject to the marketplace rules (national instrument 21-101 and national instrument 23-101), which include requirements for fair access, transparency of operations, systems and confidentiality of trading information. as an ats, nasdaq canada is also a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and must comply with its dealer member rules. in december 2017, nasdaq canada received approval from the ontario securities commission to become recognized as an exchange under the securities act of ontario effective on march 1, 2018. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and european economic area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and market abuse. in mid-2012, emir, a regulation relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions, was adopted. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq clearing, like other european ccps, applied to reauthorize its ccp operations. nasdaq clearing was the first european ccp to be authorized as emir-compliant when the sfsa approved its application as a ccp under emir in 2014. in july 2016, the european union's market abuse regulation, which is intended to prevent market abuse, entered into force. mifid ii and mifir entered into force in january 2018 and primarily affect our european trading businesses. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir are implemented through technical standards drafted by the european securities and markets authority and approved by the european commission. in addition, in 2016, the european union adopted legislation on governance and control of the production and use of benchmark indexes. the benchmark regulation applies in the european union from early 2018. however, due to transitional clauses in the benchmark regulation, nasdaq as a benchmark provider, does not need to be in compliance with the benchmark regulation until january 1, 2020. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq 12 table of contents nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq clearing's role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq stockholm's exchange activities are regulated primarily by the ssma, which implements mifid ii into swedish law and which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange's articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq clearing holds the license as a ccp under emir. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange's rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners' interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa's supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange's obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in iceland, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. in finland and sweden, decisions to list new companies are made by independent listing committees and in the other countries the decision is made by the respective president of the exchanges. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the respective surveillance department. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in denmark, finland, iceland and sweden. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country. employees as of december 31, 2017, nasdaq had 4,734 employees. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.business.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq's website and click on investor relations, then under financials click on sec filings. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, changes in investment patterns and priorities, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volumes or values, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our data, index, corporate solutions and market technology products. trading volumes and values are driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volumes or values may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. information services revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market and in etp assets under management tracking nasdaq indexes. finally, there may be less demand for our corporate solutions or market technology products if global economic conditions are weak. our customers historically cut back on purchases of new services and technology when growth rates decline, thereby reducing our opportunities to sell new products and services or upgrade existing products and services. a reduction in trading volumes or values, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for information services, corporate solutions or market technology products due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our data products, index licensing and services, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and demand for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have also merged to achieve greater economies of scale and scope. regulatory changes also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the european union that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing competitors. we also compete with 14 table of contents respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. in addition, pricing in our corporate services, index licensing and services and market technology businesses is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in service outages, lower trading volumes or values, financial losses, decreased customer satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets and the markets that rely on our technology have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any volume increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position. we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products and initiatives. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms, the rollout of our platforms and the adoption of new technologies, such as blockchain, machine intelligence and the cloud. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms or technologies will justify the related investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms or the adoption of new technologies, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. a decline in trading and clearing volumes or values or market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes and values are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes and values across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes or values. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume or value of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes or values would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes or values through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes or values may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities decreases relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower the nasdaq stock market's share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our data products business. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyberattack. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches. some of these threats include attacks from foreign governments, hacktivists, insiders and criminal organizations. foreign governments may seek to obtain a foothold in u.s. critical infrastructure, hacktivists may 15 table of contents seek to deploy denial of service attacks to bring attention to their cause, insiders may pose a risk by human error or malicious activity and criminal organizations may seek to profit from stolen data. computer viruses and worms also continue to be a threat with ransomware increasingly being used by criminals to extort money. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach, collateral damage from a new virus or a non-malicious act, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volumes or values, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. any system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our platforms to include other products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses, including evestment and sybenetix. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies' operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or customers not renewing their contracts with us as we migrate platforms; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on, or provision of, transition services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. gaap and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. 16 table of contents we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies, pay dividends, repurchase our stock or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations that can be ambiguous and can change unexpectedly. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., europe and canada. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future that can change in response to global conditions and events. our ability to comply with complex and changing regulation is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks and regulatory obligations, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. for example, during 2016, the sfsa and the other nordic financial supervisory authorities conducted investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed the sfsa's decision, including the amount of the fine. the court has not yet reached a decision on our appeal. in the future, we could be subject to sec or other regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. in addition, favorable sec rulings and interpretations can be challenged in and reversed by federal courts of appeals, reducing or eliminating the value of such prior interpretations. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower 17 table of contents fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in 2016, the sec approved a plan to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (cat) to improve regulators' ability to monitor trading activity. in addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail could result in significant additional expenditures, including to implement any new technology to meet any plan's requirements. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sros. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer's net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. in these countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities' requirements. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure and technological oversight. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. industry responses to the mifid ii and mifir rules or other applicable rules could affect our operations in europe. changes to the rules themselves could also affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe could have a material impact on our business. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, the adoption of these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs and obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. we have defeated two challenges in federal appeals court and an additional challenge at the administrative level within the sec. the decision defeating the challenge was reaffirmed at the administrative level in early 2018. however, the industry challengers have sought additional review of that administrative decision by the full sec. that sec review remains pending and, when resolved, it may be appealed to a federal court of appeals. if the results of the full sec review and any subsequent appeal are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges' ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our data products revenues. in canada, all new marketplace fees and changes to existing fees, including trading and data fees, must be filed with and approved by the ontario securities commission. in 2016, the canadian securities administrators approved amendments adopting a data fees methodology that restricts the total amount of fees that can be charged by all marketplaces to a reference level that is not yet defined. when a reference is established, all marketplaces will be subject to annual reviews of their market data fees tying market data revenues to market share. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. the new mifid ii/mifir rules entail that the price for regulated data such as pre- and post-trade data shall be based 18 table of contents on cost plus a reasonable margin. however, what constitutes reasonable margin is not clearly defined. there is a risk that a different interpretation of this term may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition, any future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner as today, thereby causing an adverse effect on our data products revenues. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. in 2013, we experienced an outage in the exclusive processor system we maintain and operate on behalf of all exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed stocks that resulted in a market-wide trading halt lasting approximately three hours. following this system outage, the sec and others evaluated all infrastructure that is critical to the national market system, including the processor systems. nasdaq, as technology provider to the utp operating committee, proposed, received approval for, and implemented measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. additionally, the utp operating committee approved nasdaq's proposal to transfer the processor technology from its current enhanced platform to nasdaq's inet platform. the migration, which was completed in late 2016, further enhanced the resiliency of the processor systems. if, despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. our operational processes are subject to the risk of error, which may result in financial loss or reputational damage. we have instituted extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations; however, such risk cannot completely be eliminated. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets. some of our operations require complex processes, and the introduction of new products or services or changes in processes or reporting due to regulatory requirements may result in an increased risk of errors for a period after implementation. data, other content or information that we distribute may contain errors or be delayed, causing reputational harm. use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us in the event of such delay or error. even with a favorable outcome, significant litigation against us might unduly burden management, personnel, financial and other resources. in addition, the sophisticated software we sell to our customers may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may be discovered only after delivery. these errors may result in negative customer experiences that could damage our reputation, thereby causing loss of customers, loss of revenues and liability for damages, thereby adversely affecting our business and financial results. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may affect our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal and contractual requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data continue to evolve; regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently across jurisdictions and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which becomes effective in may 2018, extends the scope of the european union data protection law and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition to directly applying to certain nasdaq business activities, we expect that this regulation may impact many of our customers, which may affect their requirements and decisions related to services that we offer. although we have a program underway to address gdpr requirements, our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could impact the services that we offer. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. stagnation or decline in the listings market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for listings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. a stagnation or decline in the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges will impact our revenues. through december 31, 2017, we recognized revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as of january 1, 2018, we adopted asu 2014-09; see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2 summary of significant accounting policies, for further discussion. both before and after the adoption of this new accounting standard, a stagnant market for listings could cause a decrease in revenues for future years. furthermore, a prolonged decrease in the number of listings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. our corporate solutions business is also impacted by declines in the listings market or increases in acquisitions activity as there will be fewer publicly-traded customers that need our products. 19 table of contents any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term debt and commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and corporate development activity, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting our industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our commercial paper and other outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and most tranches of our senior notes fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based, corporate solutions and market technology products, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our data products business and the accuracy of calculations used by our index licensing and services business for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volumes or values on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our data products, index licensing and services, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2017, goodwill totaled approximately $6.6 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $2.5 billion . the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity and cost method investments and property and equipment, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. we estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows. considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. however, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, and there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2017. as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 6, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million in 2016 and $119 million in 2015. we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. for additional discussion of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including related impairment, see goodwill and related impairment, indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, and other long-lived assets and related impairment, of critical accounting policies and estimates, of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and valuation of other 20 table of contents long-lived assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 6, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in finance and technology; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes or values. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancings. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management's expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and proactively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald &amp; co., or cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2017, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. this clearing agreement will end on july 31, 2018, and will be replaced by a clearing agreement with the industrial and commercial bank of china financial services llc, or icbc. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald (and similarly will be by icbc after july 31, 2018) through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). all of execution access' obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. daily position trading limits are also enforced for such counterparties. although we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 21 table of contents our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2017 was approximately $4.2 billion . we may borrow additional amounts by utilizing available liquidity under our existing credit facilities or issuing short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes through our commercial paper program. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; and increase our cost of debt and reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, dispose of assets and pay dividends (although we are permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock). failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, employment, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of an sro. although our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges outsource a portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges monitor trading and compliance with listing standards in accordance with the european union's market abuse regulation and other applicable laws. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners, employees and others. however, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient, or effective, at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials 22 table of contents and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. however, effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services and products are offered. moreover, changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, could also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. in particular, recent amendments to the u.s. patent law may affect our ability to protect and defend our innovations. there is also a risk that the scope of protection under our patents may not be sufficient in some cases, or that existing patents may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, data storage, data content, clearing and other services. to the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. in addition, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law in certain jurisdictions, could subject us to additional income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, dispositions, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. in addition, we are in the process of divesting certain assets, and we may divest additional businesses or assets in the future. although we cannot predict our transactional activities with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions, divestments, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities will be important to our strategy. such transactions may be material in size and scope. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit rating agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance a transaction could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future transactions could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-transaction business relationships; reliance on, or provision of, transition services; increased operating costs; 23 table of contents the diversion of our management team from other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; risks associated with divesting employees, customers or vendors when divesting businesses or assets; declines in the value of investments; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, including but not limited to northern europe, the baltics, the middle east, africa and asia. therefore, our non-u.s. operations are subject to the risk inherent in the international environment. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of our non-u.s. locations could adversely affect our operations and financial results. some locations, such as lithuania, india and the philippines, may increase risk. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. unforeseen or catastrophic events could interrupt our critical business functions. in addition, our u.s. and european businesses are heavily concentrated in particular areas and may be adversely affected by events in those areas. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, extreme weather, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, theft, sabotage and vandalism. given our position in the global capital markets, we may be more likely than other companies to be a target of such activities. in addition, our u.s. business operations are heavily concentrated on the east coast, and our european business operations are heavily concentrated in stockholm. any event that affects either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. we have business continuity plans for critical business functions to mitigate the risk of an interruption. however, any interruption in our critical business functions could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. because we have operations in numerous countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the u.k., australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, changes in local interest rates or other factors. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and could adversely affect our financial results. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, assess, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq's global risk management committee, which is comprised of senior executives and is responsible for regularly reviewing risks and referring significant risks to the board of directors or specific board committees. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon subjective evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly 24 table of contents evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, integration and restructuring costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; we may incur additional costs from integrating our acquisitions. the success of our acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses into our existing operations and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities; and we may incur restructuring costs in connection with the reorganization of any of our businesses. decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. since 2013, our board of directors has declared quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq's board of directors. the board's determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law restrict the ownership and voting of our common stock. in addition, such provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec's concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries include a prohibition on any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries also require the sec's approval of any business ventures with exchange members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation's board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34 table of contents segment operating results the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) market services $ 2,418 $ 2,255 $ 2,084 7.2 % 8.2 % transaction-based expenses (1,537 ) (1,428 ) (1,313 ) 7.6 % 8.8 % market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 881 827 771 6.5 % 7.3 % corporate services 656 635 562 3.3 % 13.0 % information services 588 540 512 8.9 % 5.5 % market technology 303 275 245 10.2 % 12.2 % total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,428 $ 2,277 $ 2,090 6.6 % 8.9 % the following charts show our market services, corporate services, information services and market technology segments as a percentage of our total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,428 million in 2017, $2,277 million in 2016 and $2,090 million in 2015: 35 table of contents 36 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 752 $ 541 $ 432 39.0 % 25.2 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (450 ) (288 ) (223 ) 56.3 % 29.1 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (43 ) (25 ) (21 ) 72.0 % 19.0 % equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 259 228 188 13.6 % 21.3 % cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,279 1,349 1,315 (5.2 )% 2.6 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (692 ) (785 ) (756 ) (11.8 )% 3.8 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (334 ) (309 ) (306 ) 8.1 % 1.0 % cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 253 255 253 (0.8 )% 0.8 % ficc revenues 96 99 98 (3.0 )% 1.0 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (16 ) (19 ) (4 ) (15.8 )% 375.0 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2 ) (2 ) (3 ) % (33.3 )% ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses 78 78 91 % (14.3 )% trade management services revenues 291 266 239 9.4 % 11.3 % total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 881 $ 827 $ 771 6.5 % 7.3 % ____________ (1) includes section 31 fees of $40 million in 2017, $24 million in 2016 and $19 million in 2015. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. (2) includes section 31 fees of $319 million in 2017, $290 million in 2016 and $282 million in 2015. section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increases in 2017 were primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016, higher u.s. industry trading volumes and an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share. further impacting the increase in equity derivative trading revenues was higher section 31 pass-through fee revenue. the increases in 2016 were primarily due to: the inclusion of revenues from our acquisition of ise, partially offset by; lower u.s. industry trading volumes; and lower market share at nasdaq phlx. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. the increase in 2017 compared with 2016 is primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of section 31 fees from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016. the increase in 2016 compared with 2015 is primarily due to the inclusion of six months of section 31 fees from our acquisition of ise. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in both 37 table of contents 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared to 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of rebates associated with our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016, increases in rebate capture, higher u.s. industry trading volumes, and an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to the inclusion of six months of rebates associated with our acquisition of ise, partially offset by lower u.s. industry trading volumes and lower market share at nasdaq phlx. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in both 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees associated with our acquisition of ise, as discussed above. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 and increased in 2016 compared with 2015. the decreases in 2017 were primarily due to: lower u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by; higher european industry trading volumes; and an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share and european market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the decrease in cash equity trading revenues in 2017 was also partially offset by an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. the increases in 2016 were primarily due to: the inclusion of revenues associated with our acquisition of nasdaq canada; and higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes, partially offset by a; decrease in our overall u.s. and european matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2016 was also unfavorably impacted by a decrease in the u.s. average net capture rate. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. the increases in section 31 fees in 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015 were primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges and higher sec fee rates. transaction rebates decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 and increased in 2016 compared with 2015. for the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq psx and nasdaq canada, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for nasdaq bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. the decrease in 2017 was primarily due to: lower u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by; an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to: higher u.s. industry trading volumes; and the inclusion of rebates associated with our acquisition of nasdaq canada, partially offset by a; decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 when compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees, as discussed above, partially offset by a decline in routing fees. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. ficc revenues ficc revenues decreased in 2017 compared with the same period in 2016 primarily due to volume declines in european commodities products and u.s. fixed income products, partially offset by higher volumes and pricing changes at nfx. ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses were flat in 2017 compared with 2016 as declines in european commodities products and u.s. fixed income products were offset by higher volumes and pricing changes at nfx. ficc revenues increased slightly in 2016 compared with 2015 and ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2016 compared with 2015. the decrease in ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2016 was primarily due to the impact of nfx trading incentives and a decline in u.s. fixed income revenues, partially offset by higher commodities revenues. trade management services revenues trade management services revenues increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to an increase in customer demand for third party connectivity, co-location, and test facilities and the inclusion of a full year of revenues from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in customer demand for network connectivity and the inclusion of six months of revenues from our acquisition of ise. 38 table of contents corporate services the following table shows revenues from our corporate services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) corporate services: corporate solutions $ 386 $ 363 $ 298 6.3 % 21.8 % listing services 270 272 264 (0.7 )% 3.0 % total corporate services $ 656 $ 635 $ 562 3.3 % 13.0 % corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increase was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisitions of boardvantage and marketwired. see acquisition of boardvantage, and acquisition of marketwired, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the boardvantage and marketwired acquisitions. listing services revenues listing services revenues decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 and increased in 2016 compared with 2015. the decrease in 2017 was primarily due to a decrease in u.s. listing of additional share fees as a result of our all-inclusive annual listing fee program, partially offset by an increase in european listing services revenues due to new company listings. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in european revenues due to new company listings. information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) information services: data products $ 454 $ 427 $ 399 6.3 % 7.0 % index licensing and services 134 113 113 18.6 % % total information services $ 588 $ 540 $ 512 8.9 % 5.5 % data products revenues data products revenues increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to growth in proprietary data products revenues and the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of evestment. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to growth in proprietary data products revenues, the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisitions of ise and nasdaq canada, and higher index data products revenues. index licensing and services revenues index licensing and services revenues increased in 2017 compared with 2016 and was flat in 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher assets under management in etps linked to nasdaq indexes. index licensing and services revenues were flat in 2016 as an increase in revenues associated with the acquisition of ise was offset by a decrease in average fees on etps tracking to nasdaq indexes and a decrease in the value of underlying assets associated with non-etp nasdaq-licensed products. market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) market technology $ 303 $ 275 $ 245 10.2 % 12.2 % market technology revenues market technology revenues increased in both 2017 compared with 2016 and 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher change request revenues and an increase in revenues from software as a service. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in revenues from software, licensing and support as well as surveillance products. total order value total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $847 million as of december 31, 2017 and $777 million as of december 31, 2016 . as of december 31, 2017 , market technology deferred revenue of $173 million represents consideration received that is yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 9, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depend on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2018 $ 263 2019 204 2020 137 2021 102 2022 62 2023 and thereafter 79 total $ 847 39 table of contents on january 1, 2018, we adopted asu 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers. as a result, a portion of revenues that were previously deferred were recognized either in prior period revenues, through restatement, or as an adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption of the new standard. see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, for further discussion and the impact to the deferred revenue balance. * * * * * * expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 675 $ 664 $ 590 1.7 % 12.5 % professional and contract services 156 153 148 2.0 % 3.4 % computer operations and data communications 125 111 107 12.6 % 3.7 % occupancy 95 86 85 10.5 % 1.2 % general, administrative and other 82 72 65 13.9 % 10.8 % marketing and advertising 31 30 28 3.3 % 7.1 % depreciation and amortization 188 170 138 10.6 % 23.2 % regulatory 33 35 27 (5.7 )% 29.6 % merger and strategic initiatives 44 76 10 (42.1 )% 660.0 % restructuring charges 41 172 (100.0 )% (76.2 )% total operating expenses $ 1,429 $ 1,438 $ 1,370 (0.6 )% 5.0 % the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2017 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs resulting from our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by lower compensation expense reflecting lower performance incentives. also impacting the change in compensation expense in 2017 was accelerated expense recorded in 2016 due to the retirement of the company's former ceo for equity awards previously granted. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs resulting from our 2016 acquisitions and accelerated expense due to the retirement of the company's former ceo discussed above. partially offsetting the 2016 increases was lower compensation expense reflecting lower performance incentives and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. headcount increased to 4,734 employees as of december 31, 2017 from 4,325 as of december 31, 2016 primarily due to our acquisition of evestment. the increase in professional and contract services expense in 2017 was primarily associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and the increase in 2016 was primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in computer operations and data communications expense in 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to higher hardware and license costs. the increase in 2017 was associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and the increase in 2016 was primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in occupancy expense in 2017 and 2016 primarily reflects additional facility and rent costs. the increase in 2017 was associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and the increase in 2016 was associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2016 is partially offset by lower facility and rent costs as a result of our restructuring activities. the increase in general, administrative and other expense in 2017 was primarily due to a pre-tax charge of $10 million which primarily included a make-whole redemption price premium paid on the early extinguishment of our $370 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes, or the 2018 notes, and lower regulatory fine collections. the increase in 2016 is primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2017 and 2016 primarily due to an increase in advertising spend. the increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets. the increase in 2017 was associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and the increase in 2016 was primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2016 was also due to additional amortization expense associated with software assets placed in service. the decrease in regulatory expense in 2017 was primarily due to costs incurred in 2016 related to the investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse, which are discussed below, partially offset by a rate increase for regulatory services and trade surveillance. the 40 table of contents increase in 2016 was due to investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed the sfsa's decision, including the amount of the fine. the court has not yet reached a decision on our appeal. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2017 was primarily related to our acquisitions of evestment and ise as well as costs associated with our review of strategic alternatives for our public relations solutions and digital media services businesses within our corporate solutions business. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2016 was primarily related to our acquisitions of ise, boardvantage, and marketwired. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2015 was primarily related to certain strategic initiatives and our acquisition of dwa. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2016 and 2015. * * * * * * non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) interest income $ 7 $ 5 $ 4 40.0 % 25.0 % interest expense (143 ) (135 ) (111 ) 5.9 % 21.6 % net interest expense (136 ) (130 ) (107 ) 4.6 % 21.5 % asset impairment charge (578 ) (100.0 )% n/m other investment income 2 3 (33.3 )% n/m net income from unconsolidated investees 15 2 17 650.0 % (88.2 )% total non-operating expenses $ (119 ) $ (703 ) $ (90 ) (83.1 )% 681.1 % _______ n/m not meaningful. interest income interest income increased in both 2017 and 2016 primarily due to an increase in interest rates. interest expense the following table shows our interest expense: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) interest expense on debt $ 135 $ 129 $ 106 4.7 % 21.7 % accretion of debt issuance costs and debt discount 6 5 4 20.0 % 25.0 % other bank and investment-related fees 2 1 1 100.0 % % interest expense $ 143 $ 135 $ 111 5.9 % 21.6 % interest expense increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to debt issuances related to our acquisitions, partially offset by refinancing to lower cost debt. the increase in 2017 was primarily associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and the increase in 2016 was primarily associated with our 2016 acquisitions. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. asset impairment charge the asset impairment charge in 2016 relates to a pre-tax, non-cash intangible asset impairment charge related to the full write-off of the espeed trade name due to a continued decline in the operating performance of the espeed business during 2016 and a rebranding of our fixed income business under a single brand called nasdaq fixed income. see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 6, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the intangible asset impairment charge in 2016. 41 table of contents net income from unconsolidated investees net income from unconsolidated investees in 2017 and 2015 primarily relates to income recognized from our equity method investment in occ. net income from unconsolidated investees in 2016 includes income recognized from our equity method investments in occ and euroccp n.v. , partially offset by the write-off of an equity method investment. see equity method investments, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our equity method investments. tax matters the tax cuts and jobs act was enacted on december 22, 2017 and is effective january 1, 2018. the new legislation contains several key provisions, including a reduction of the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. we are required to remeasure all our u.s. deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 22, 2017 and record the impact of such remeasurement in our 2017 financial statements. for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded a decrease to tax expense of $87 million , substantially all of which reflects the estimated impact associated with the remeasurement of our net u.s. deferred tax liability at the lower u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. the tax cuts and jobs act also imposes a transition tax on unremitted aggregate accumulated earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries, which did not impact us. the following table shows our income tax provision and effective tax rate: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 ($ in millions) income tax provision $ 146 $ 28 $ 203 421.4 % (86.2 )% effective tax rate 16.6 % 20.6 % 32.2 % the lower effective tax rate in 2017 when compared to 2016 is primarily due to a decrease to tax expense associated with the remeasurement of our net u.s. deferred tax liability as a result of enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act. the decrease in the effective tax rate in 2017 is also due to the recognition of excess tax benefits associated with the vesting of employee share-based compensation arrangements. the lower effective tax rate in 2016 when compared to 2015 is primarily due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings, largely driven by the write-off of the espeed trade name, partially offset by an unfavorable ruling from the finnish supreme administrative court. the effective tax rate may also vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. for further discussion of our tax matters, see tax matters, and recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 11, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. * * * * * * non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of results as the items described below do not reflect ongoing operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they highlight trends more clearly in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our ongoing operating performance. non-gaap net 42 table of contents income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting for the following items: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets: we amortize intangible assets acquired in connection with various acquisitions. intangible asset amortization expense can vary from period to period due to episodic acquisitions completed, rather than from our ongoing business operations. as such, if intangible asset amortization is included in performance measures, it is more difficult to assess the day-to-day operating performance of the businesses, the relative operating performance of the businesses between periods, and the earnings power of nasdaq. performance measures excluding intangible asset amortization therefore provide investors with a more useful representation of our businesses' ongoing activity in each period. merger and strategic initiatives expense: we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed a number of acquisitions in recent years which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third party transaction costs. the frequency and the amount of such expenses vary significantly based on the size, timing and complexity of the transaction. accordingly, we exclude these costs for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures which provide a more meaningful analysis of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparison in nasdaq's performance between periods. restructuring charges: restructuring charges are associated with our 2015 restructuring plan to improve performance, cut costs and reduce spending and were primarily related to (i) severance and other termination benefits, (ii) asset impairment charges, and (iii) other charges. we exclude these restructuring costs because these costs do not reflect future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparison of nasdaq's performance between periods. asset impairment charge: intangible assets that have indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment at least annually, or when indicators of impairment are present. in december 2 016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million related to the full write-off of the espeed trade name. the impairment charge was the result of a decline in operating performance and the rebranding of our fixed income business. we exclude asset impairment charges because they do not reflect future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparison of nasdaq's performance between periods. other significant items: we have excluded certain other charges or gains, including certain tax items, that are the result of other non-comparable events to measure operating performance. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the ongoing financial results of nasdaq. for 2017 , other significant items primarily include a make-whole redemption price premium paid on the early extinguishment of our 2018 notes, a sublease loss reserve charge recorded on space we currently occupy due to excess capacity, and wind down costs associated with an equity method investment that was previously written off. for 2016, other significant items primarily include accelerated expense for equity awards previously granted due to the retirement of the company's former ceo, a regulatory fine received by our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse, the release of a sublease loss reserve due to the early exit of a facility, and the impact of the write-off of an equity method investment, partially offset by a gain resulting from the sale of a percentage of a separate equity method investment. for 2015, other significant items include income from our equity investment in occ where we were not able to determine what our share of occ's income was for the year ended december 31, 2014 until the first quarter of 2015, when financial statements were made available to us. as a result, we recorded other income in the first quarter of 2015 relating to our share of occ's income for the year ended december 31, 2014. for 2015, other significant adjustments also included the reversal of a vat refund. significant tax items: the adjustment to the income tax provision includes the tax impact of each non-gaap adjustment in addition to the following items: the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits of $12 million associated with positions taken in prior years for the year ended december 31, 2017. we recorded a $27 million tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2016, due to an unfavorable tax ruling received during the second quarter of 2016, the impact of which is related to prior periods. the impact of newly enacted u.s. tax legislation is related to the tax cuts and jobs act which was enacted on december 22, 2017. for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded a decrease to tax expense of $87 million, which reflects the estimated impact associated with the enactment of this act. the decrease in tax expense primarily relates to the remeasurement of our net u.s. deferred tax liability at the lower u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. the estimate may be refined in the future as new information becomes available. excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation of $40 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 was recorded as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance on january 1, 2017. this guidance requires all income tax effects of share-based awards to be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled on a prospective basis, as opposed to stockholders' equity where it was previously recorded, and will be a recurring item going forward. this item is subject to volatility and will vary based on the timing of the vesting of employee share-based compensation arrangements and fluctuation in our stock price. 43 table of contents the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 734 $ 4.33 $ 108 $ 0.64 $ 428 $ 2.50 non-gaap adjustments: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 92 0.54 82 0.49 62 0.36 merger and strategic initiatives 44 0.26 76 0.45 10 0.06 extinguishment of debt 10 0.06 restructuring charges 41 0.24 172 1.00 asset impairment charge 578 3.42 executive compensation 12 0.07 regulatory matter 1 0.01 6 0.04 income from occ equity investment (13 ) (0.08 ) reversal vat refund 12 0.07 sublease loss reserve 2 0.01 (1 ) (0.01 ) other 2 0.01 6 0.04 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments and other tax items (70 ) (0.41 ) (287 ) (1.70 ) (90 ) (0.52 ) impact of newly enacted u.s. tax legislation (87 ) (0.51 ) excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation (40 ) (0.24 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax (46 ) (0.27 ) 513 3.04 153 0.89 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 688 $ 4.06 $ 621 $ 3.68 $ 581 $ 3.39 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 169,585,031 168,800,997 171,283,271 * * * * * * liquidity and capital resources historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock annually which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq's total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. in april 2017, we entered into the 2017 credit facility which replaced our existing 2014 credit facility. we also entered into a commercial paper program which enables us to borrow efficiently at reasonable short-term interest rates and is supported by our 2017 credit facility. see commercial paper program, 2017 credit facility, and 2014 credit facility, of note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as of december 31, 2017 , the balance of $110 million outstanding on the 2017 credit facility reflects the outstanding 44 table of contents amount, less unamortized debt issuance costs of $5 million . of the $885 million that is available for borrowing, $480 million provides liquidity support for the principal amount outstanding under the commercial paper program as of december 31, 2017 and $1 million has been utilized for a letter of credit. as of december 31, 2017 , the total remaining amount available under the 2017 credit facility was $404 million . in may 2017, we used a combination of cash on hand and net proceeds from the sale of commercial paper to redeem all of our 2018 notes. in addition, in june 2017, we used net proceeds from the sale of commercial paper to repay $300 million of the amount outstanding on the 2016 credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , the outstanding balance of $100 million on the 2016 credit facility reflects the aggregate principal amount, less the unamortized debt issuance costs. see early extinguishment of 2018 notes, and 2016 credit facility, of note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in september 2017, we announced an agreement to acquire evestment and issued the 2019 notes. since the proposed acquisition of evestment was not immediately expected to close, $276 million of the net proceeds from the 2019 notes was used to partially pay down our outstanding commercial paper balance and the remainder of the net proceeds was held in cash and used in october 2017 to partially fund our acquisition of evestment. see acquisition of evestment, of note 4, acquisitions, for further discussion. in may 2016, nasdaq issued the 2023 notes and in june 2016, nasdaq issued the 2026 notes. we used the majority of the net proceeds from the 2023 notes of $664 million and the 2026 notes of $495 million to fund the acquisition of ise and related expenses. see 3.85% senior unsecured notes, and 1.75% senior unsecured notes, of note 10, debt obligations, and acquisition of ise, of note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations and the availability under our revolving credit commitment and commercial paper program will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and commercial paper can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $ 267 million as of december 31, 2017 , compared with $ 478 million as of december 31, 2016 , a decrease of $ 211 million . current asset balance changes increased working capital by $969 million, with increases in default funds and margin deposits, assets held for sale, other current assets and restricted cash, partially offset by decreases in cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, at fair value, and receivables, net. current liability balance changes decreased working capital by $1,180 million, due to increases in default funds and margin deposits, short-term debt, liabilities held for sale, deferred revenue, section 31 fees payable to the sec, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by decreases in other current liabilities and accrued personnel costs. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in regulatory and working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facilities that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates under our credit facilities; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility or disruption in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 377 $ 403 restricted cash 22 15 financial investments, at fair value 235 245 total financial assets $ 634 $ 663 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents includes all non-restricted cash in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2017 , our cash and cash equivalents of $377 million were primarily invested in bank deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2017 decreased $26 million from december 31, 2016 , primarily due to: cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired; repayments of long-term debt; 45 table of contents cash dividends paid on our common stock; repurchases of our common stock; and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by; net cash provided by operating activities; net proceeds received from the issuance of the 2019 notes; net proceeds received from commercial paper, net; and proceeds received from utilization of credit commitment, net of debt issuance costs. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, restricted cash is restricted from withdrawal due to a contractual or regulatory requirement or is not available for general use. restricted cash was $22 million as of december 31, 2017 and $15 million as of december 31, 2016, an increase of $7 million . the increase relates to an increase in regulatory capital required. restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $138 million as of december 31, 2017 and $102 million as of december 31, 2016. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $239 million as of december 31, 2017 and $301 million as of december 31, 2016. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law in certain jurisdictions, could subject us to additional income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program see share repurchase program, of note 14, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash dividends on common stock the following table shows quarterly cash dividends paid per common share on our outstanding common stock: 2017 2016 first quarter $ 0.32 $ 0.25 second quarter 0.38 0.32 third quarter 0.38 0.32 fourth quarter 0.38 0.32 total $ 1.46 $ 1.21 see cash dividends on common stock, of note 14, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $235 million as of december 31, 2017 and $245 million as of december 31, 2016 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities. of these securities, $160 million as of december 31, 2017 and $172 million as of december 31, 2016 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements, primarily for our clearing operations at nasdaq clearing. see note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading investment securities. 46 table of contents debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) short-term debt - commercial paper weighted-average maturity of 22 days $ 480 $ long-term debt: 5.25% senior unsecured notes repaid may 2017 369 senior unsecured floating rate notes march 2019 498 $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility november 2019 100 399 5.55% senior unsecured notes january 2020 599 598 3.875% senior unsecured notes june 2021 716 625 $1 billion revolving credit commitment april 2022 110 1.75% senior unsecured notes may 2023 712 622 4.25% senior unsecured notes june 2024 496 495 3.85% senior unsecured notes june 2026 496 495 total long-term debt 3,727 3,603 total debt obligations $ 4,207 $ 3,603 in addition to the $1 billion revolving credit commitment and $400 million term loan facility, we also have other credit facilities related to our nasdaq clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity. other credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, totaled $187 million as of december 31, 2017 and $170 million as of december 31, 2016 , in available liquidity, none of which was utilized. * * * * * * as of december 31, 2017 , we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. as of december 31, 2017 , our required regulatory capital of $160 million is primarily comprised of highly rated european government debt securities that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx, and nasdaq capital markets advisory are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. the following table summarizes the net capital requirements for our broker-dealer subsidiaries as of december 31, 2017 : broker-dealer subsidiaries total net capital required minimum net capital excess capital (in millions) nasdaq execution services $ 7.3 $ 0.3 $ 7.0 execution access 47.7 0.4 47.3 npm securities 0.2 0.2 smtx 1.5 0.3 1.2 nasdaq capital markets advisory 0.5 0.3 0.2 other capital requirements nasdaq execution services nasdaq execution services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with occ. nasdaq canada as a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada, nasdaq canada must comply with its dealer member rules which are intended to ensure general financial soundness and liquidity. under these rules, nasdaq canada is required to comply with minimum net capital requirements. as of december 31, 2017 , nasdaq canada was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.2 million and 47 table of contents had total net capital of approximately $7.8 million, or $7.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. * * * * * * cash flow analysis the following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 909 $ 776 $ 727 17.1 % 6.7 % investing activities (890 ) (1,657 ) (435 ) (46.3 )% 280.9 % financing activities (53 ) 948 (400 ) (105.6 )% (337.0 )% effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 15 (6 ) (11 ) (350.0 )% (45.5 )% net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (19 ) 61 (119 ) (131.1 )% (151.3 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 418 357 476 17.1 % (25.0 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 399 $ 418 $ 357 (4.5 )% 17.1 % net cash provided by operating activities net cash provided by operating activities increased $133 million in 2017 compared with 2016 and increased $49 million in 2016 compared with 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher net income, mainly due to the inclusion of a full year of cash flows from our 2016 acquisitions, partially offset by higher compensation payments driven by our 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2016 was primarily due to additional cash flows from our 2016 acquisitions, partially offset by an increase in cash payments related to merger and strategic initiatives expense associated with our 2016 acquisitions. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities decreased $767 million in 2017 compared with 2016 and increased $1,222 million in 2016 compared with 2015. the decrease in 2017 was primarily due to cash paid for our 2016 acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired of $1,460 million partially offset by cash paid for our 2017 acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired of $776 million . net cash (used in) provided by financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 primarily consisted of repayment of long-term debt of $708 million, $ 243 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock, and $ 203 million related to the repurchase of our common stock, partially offset by net proceeds of $ 498 million from the issuance of the 2019 notes and commercial paper, net of $ 480 million , and proceeds received from the utilization of our credit commitment of $150 million. net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 primarily consisted of net proceeds of $2,456 million, of which $1,159 million related to the issuances of our 2023 notes and 2026 notes to fund our acquisition of ise, $399 million related to net proceeds from our 2016 credit facility and $898 million related to proceeds from utilization of the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility to partially fund our acquisitions of boardvantage, marketwired and nasdaq canada, and other general corporate purposes. these proceeds were partially offset by the repayment of $1,156 million on the revolving credit commitment under our 2014 credit facility. we also used $200 million of cash to pay cash dividends on our common stock and $100 million of cash to repurchase our common stock. see note 4, acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisitions. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. see share repurchase program, and cash dividends on common stock, of note 14, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program and cash dividends paid on our common stock. 48 table of contents contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2017 : payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 4,844 $ 612 $ 1,324 $ 1,076 $ 1,832 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 439 87 140 102 110 other obligations (3) 18 14 4 total $ 5,301 $ 713 $ 1,468 $ 1,178 $ 1,942 ____________ (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. as of december 31, 2017 , an interest rate of 3.09% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2017 credit facility, 3.25% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2016 credit facility, and 2.15% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2019 notes. all other debt obligations were primarily calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount as of december 31, 2017 . see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) other obligations primarily consist of potential future escrow agreement payments related to prior acquisitions. * * * * * * no n-cash contingent consideration as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, we have agreed to future annual issuances of 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock which approximated certain tax benefits associated with the transaction. such contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if nasdaq's total gross revenues equal or exceed $25 million in each such year. the contingent future issuances of nasdaq common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events. off-balance sheet arrangements for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: note 17, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; and note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of: guarantees issued and credit facilities available; lease commitments; other guarantees; non-cash contingent consideration; escrow agreements; routing brokerage activities; legal and regulatory matters; and tax audits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations which are discussed below. 49 table of contents financial investments as of december 31, 2017 , our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2017 , the fair value of this portfolio would have declined by $5 million . debt obligations as of december 31, 2017 , substantially all of our debt obligations are fixed-rate obligations. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of the issuance of our 2019 notes, borrowings under our 2017 credit facility and 2016 credit facility, and amounts outstanding from the sale of commercial paper under our commercial paper program, all of which have variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2017 , we had principal amounts outstanding of $500 million on the 2019 notes, $115 million under the 2017 credit facility, $100 million under the 2016 credit facility and $480 million of commercial paper. a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on our outstanding 2019 notes, the 2017 credit facility, the 2016 credit facility and our outstanding commercial paper would increase interest expense by approximately $12 million based on borrowings as of december 31, 2017 . * * * * * * foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 is presented in the following table: euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2017 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1273 0.1170 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 9.7 % 8.8 % 6.0 % 75.5 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 15.4 % 3.2 % (4.9 )% 86.3 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (24 ) $ (21 ) $ (14 ) $ $ (59 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (3 ) $ (5 ) $ $ (23 ) euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2016 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1064 0.1168 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 10.0 % 8.5 % 5.9 % 75.6 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 18.3 % 1.0 % (5.9 )% 86.6 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (23 ) $ (19 ) $ (14 ) $ $ (56 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (1 ) $ (5 ) $ $ (21 ) ____________ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. n/a not applicable. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries' net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries' non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other 50 table of contents comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2017 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,541 $ (354 ) norwegian krone 200 (20 ) canadian dollar 193 (19 ) british pound 202 (20 ) euro 144 (14 ) australian dollar 104 (10 ) ____________ (1) includes goodwill of $2,662 million and intangible assets, net of $638 million . credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary, nasdaq execution services, may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services' arrangements. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services' clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services' customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the trading platform for our nasdaq fixed income business to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald. as of december 31, 2017 , we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to cantor fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. this clearing agreement will end on july 31, 2018, and will be replaced by a clearing agreement with icbc. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by cantor fitzgerald (and similarly will be by icbc after july 31, 2018) through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). all of execution access' obligations under the clearing arrangement with cantor fitzgerald are guaranteed by nasdaq. counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq clearing. see note 17, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties' creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 51 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition corporate services revenues listing services revenues listing services revenues primarily include annual renewal fees, initial listing fees, and listing of additional shares fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. revenue recognition for our listing services business was impacted due to the adoption of asu 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers. see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our five reporting units are the market services segment, the two businesses comprising the corporate services segment: corporate solutions and listing services, the information services segment, and the market technology segment. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date. when testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as the basis to determine if it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. in performing a qualitative assessment, we consider the extent to which unfavorable events or circumstances identified, such as changes in economic conditions, industry and market conditions or company specific events, could affect the comparison of the reporting unit's fair value with its carrying amount. if we choose not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit, or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a quantitative test is required. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for a reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over its carrying amount at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments. the quantitative goodwill impairment test consists of two steps performed at the reporting unit level. the first step compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the reporting unit's estimated fair value exceeds its estimated carrying amount, goodwill is not impaired. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. 52 table of contents the following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments at the time of our 2017 annual impairment test: october 1, 2017 (in millions) market services $ 3,560 corporate services 491 information services 1,915 market technology 188 $ 6,154 in 2017, we performed a quantitative test for our annual impairment test for goodwill as several years had elapsed since the date of certain of our quantitative valuations. the last quantitative tests were in 2013 for the listing services, information services and market technology reporting units and in 2015 for the market services reporting unit. we also performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test on the remaining businesses in our corporate solutions reporting unit since our public relations solutions and digital media services businesses have been classified as held for sale. see note 5, assets and liabilities held for sale, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for all reporting units and determined that fair value substantially exceeded carrying value for each of our reporting units. as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded in 2017. no goodwill impairment was recorded in 2016 and 2015. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management's judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecasts of cash flows or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, primarily exchange and clearing registrations, are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date and may first perform a qualitative assessment, considering similar factors as discussed above in the goodwill impairment discussion, to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we elect to perform or are required to perform a quantitative assessment, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount as of the impairment testing date. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses and the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. during our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2017, we performed a quantitative test as several years had elapsed since the date of our previous quantitative valuations. there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2017. subsequent to our annual indefinite-lived impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. as discussed in intangible asset impairment charges, of note 6, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded the following pre-tax, non-cash indefinite-lived asset impairment charges during 2016 and 2015: december 2016: $578 million to write off the full value of the espeed trade name; and march 2015: $119 million to write off the full value of the omx trade name. in connection with our global rebranding initiative, we decided to change our company name from the nasdaq omx group, inc. to nasdaq, inc., which became effective in the third quarter of 2015. in connection with this action, we decided to discontinue the use of the omx trade name. these charges did not impact the company's consolidated cash flows, liquidity, or capital resources. the write off of the espeed trade name is recorded in asset impairment charge in the consolidated statements of income for 2016 and the write off of the omx trade name is recorded in restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income for 2015. there were no other impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015. other long-lived assets and related impairment we review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, equity and cost method investments, as well as property and equipment for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we 53 table of contents consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. we recorded pre-tax, non-cash property and equipment asset impairment charges of $9 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, $8 million for 2016 and $18 million for 2015. see note 8, property and equipment, net, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the impairment charge in 2017 is included in merger and strategic initiatives expense in the consolidated statements of income and the 2016 and 2015 impairment charges are included in restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income during the respective period. there were no other impairments of property and equipment recorded in 2017, 2016 or 2015. in december 31, 2016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $7 million to write off the full value of an equity method investment. see equity method investments, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. no other impairments of equity method investments were recorded in 2017, 2016 or 2015. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. the tax cuts and jobs act was enacted on december 22, 2017. we are required to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment, such as remeasuring our u.s. deferred tax assets and liabilities, reassessing the net realizability of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and determining the applicability of the one-time mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. sec staff accounting bulletin no. 118, income tax accounting implications of the tax cuts and jobs act, or sab 118, has provided guidance which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. as of december 31, 2017, we have recorded a provisional estimate of the effects of the new legislation. we will continue to analyze the tax cuts and jobs act and related accounting guidance and interpretations in order to finalize any impacts within the measurement period. recent accounting pronouncements see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 13 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. * * * * * * nasdaq intends to use its website, ir.nasdaq.com, as a means for disclosing material non-public information and for complying with sec regulation fd and other disclosure obligations. these disclosures will be included on nasdaq's website under investor relations. ii forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, envisions, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance, and other future developments identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our strategy, growth forecasts and 2019 outlook; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures or other transactional activities; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including transactional activities and other strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products, order backlog and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity and capital; and any litigation, or any regulatory or government investigation or action, to which we are or could become a party or which may affect us. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or divest sold businesses or assets, including the fact that any integration or transition may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and we may be unable to realize synergies from business combinations, acquisitions, divestitures or other transactional activities; loss of significant trading and clearing volumes or values, fees, market share, listed companies, market data products customers or other customers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address cybersecurity risks; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties on which we rely; any significant error in our operational processes; our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the litigation or regulatory areas, or in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 part i item 1. business overview nasdaq, inc. is a leading provider of trading, clearing, marketplace technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public and private company services. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, trade management services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions, and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting equity derivative trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading, trading surveillance and many other functions. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. in february 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. in connection with this acquisition, we changed our corporate name to the nasdaq omx group, inc. we operated under this name until we rebranded our business as nasdaq, inc. in 2015. growth strategy since our transformative combination with omx ab in 2008, we have grown our business both organically and through acquisitions that have expanded our operations globally and increasingly diversified our product and service offerings. this evolution was driven by our ability to create opportunities in areas adjacent to our core businesses, many of which are non-transaction based and rooted in innovative technology. to keep pace with our understanding of future trends and to ensure our continued success in the evolving business environment, we have focused on refining our vision, mission and strategy: our vision : we reimagine markets to realize the potential of tomorrow. our mission : we bring together ingenuity, integrity and insights to deliver markets that accelerate economic progress and empower people to achieve their greatest ambitions. our strategy : our strategic direction is driven by our continuous examination of: (i) key macroeconomic, regulatory and technology trends, (ii) consultation with our clients about short- and long-term trends in their businesses and (iii) the competitive landscape. under the strategic direction that we have been implementing over the past two years, we have focused on maximizing the resources, people and capital allocated to our largest growth opportunities, particularly in our market technology and information services businesses. in addition, we are committed to maintaining and enhancing the marketplace platform businesses that are core to nasdaq, and reducing capital and resources in areas that we believe are not as strategic to our clients and have less growth potential within nasdaq. increasing investment in businesses where we see the highest growth opportunity . we have increased investment in areas that we believe help solve our clients' biggest challenges and are likely to generate growth for our stockholders. in 2018, these businesses included: the data analytics business within our information services segment, npm, within our corporate services segment, and our market technology segment (including our regulatory technology business). consistent with this objective, we recently acquired evestment and quandl, inc., which are part of our information services segment, and sybenetix and cinnober financial technology ab, or cinnober, which are now part of our market technology segment. we also are investing further in the market technology segment through the nasdaq financial framework, the expansion of our smarts products and customers, and our efforts to commercialize disruptive technologies, including blockchain, machine intelligence and the cloud. sustaining our foundation. as we strive to grow our business, we also have focused on enhancing our leadership position in the marketplaces in which we operate as we continue to innovate with new functionality and strong market share in our core markets. optimizing slower growth businesses . we continually review areas that are not critical to our core. in these areas, we expect to target resiliency and efficiency versus growth, and free up resources when possible to redirect toward greater opportunities. in furtherance of this strategy, in april 2018 we sold the public relations (public relations solutions) and webcasting and webhosting (digital media services) businesses within our corporate solutions business to west corporation. in addition, in december 2018, we sold our 5.0% ownership interest in lch. products and services we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, corporate services, information services and market technology. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, ficc and trade management services businesses. 2 equity derivative trading and clearing we operate six electronic options exchanges in the u.s.: nasdaq phlx, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq bx options, nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx. these exchanges facilitate the trading of equity, etf, index and foreign currency options. together, our combined options market share in 2018 represented the largest share of the u.s. market for multiply-listed options on equities and etfs. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. nasdaq clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the ccp. nasdaq clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges: the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, atss and registered securities exchanges. in addition, we operate a canadian exchange with three independent markets, cxc, cx2 and cxd, for the trading of canadian-listed securities. in europe, nasdaq operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and reykjavik (iceland). we also operate exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). collectively, the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges offer trading in cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and etfs. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. in addition, nasdaq owns two central securities depositories that provide notary, settlement, central maintenance and other services in the baltic countries and iceland. ficc our ficc business includes the nasdaq fixed income business, nfx and nasdaq commodities. the u.s. portion of nasdaq fixed income includes an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities. through this business, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. the european portion of nasdaq fixed income provides a wide range of products and services, such as trading and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland, iceland, lithuania and latvia. nasdaq stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 7,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq clearing for ccp clearing. nasdaq clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq's european commodity-related products and services. nasdaq commodities' offerings include derivatives in oil, power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, seafood, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. these products are listed on two of nasdaq's derivatives exchanges. nasdaq oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for european products. all trades with nasdaq oslo asa are subject to clearing with nasdaq clearing, which is a ccp authorized under emir by the sfsa to conduct clearing operations. we also operate nfx, which is a u.s. based designated contract market authorized by the cftc. nfx currently lists cash-settled derivatives in freight and energy (including oil, natural gas and u.s. power). all trades with nfx are subject to clearing with occ. trade management services we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems' scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants, whereby we offer firms cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data centers. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and 3 microwave technology. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company's back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, electronic nordic mutual fund service, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication (swift) to deposit banks. corporate services our corporate services businesses deliver critical capital market and governance solutions across the lifecycle of public and private companies. corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges and private companies. we help organizations enhance their ability to understand and expand their global shareholder base, and improve corporate governance through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. as of december 31, 2018, we provided corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations intelligence . we offer a global team of consultative experts that deliver advisory services including strategic capital intelligence, shareholder identification and perception studies as well as an industry-leading software, nasdaq ir insight , to investor relations professionals. these solutions allow investor relations officers to better manage their investor relations programs, understand their investor base, target new investors, manage meetings and consume key data elements such as equity research, consensus estimates and news. board &amp; leadership. we provide a global technology offering that streamlines the meeting process for board of directors and executive leadership teams and helps them accelerate decision marking and strengthen governance. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. governance, risk &amp; compliance. we offer a global suite of managed services and solutions for risk management, internal audit and regulatory compliance. in april 2018, we sold the public relations solutions and digital media services products and services that formerly were part of our corporate solutions business to west corporation. in february 2019, we entered into an agreement with sai global to sell bwise, our internal audit, regulatory compliance management, and operational risk management software that comprises our governance, risk and compliance product offering. subject to regulatory approvals, works council and other representative body consultations and notifications in applicable jurisdictions, as well as other customary closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2019. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2018, a total of 3,058 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,418 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 852 on the nasdaq global market and 788 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2018, the nasdaq stock market attracted 303 new listings, including 186 ipos, representing 72% of u.s. ipos in 2018. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange llc, or nyse, and nyse american llc, or nyse american 18 ipos 186 upgrades from otc 43 etps and other listings 56 total 303 the 18 nyse or nyse american listed companies that switched to the nasdaq stock market, represented approximately $111.3 billion in market capitalization. notable switches included xcel energy, inc., united continental holdings, inc., and regency centers corporation. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth 4 companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2018, a total of 1,019 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etps, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2018, a total of 73 new companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. in addition, 13 companies upgraded their listings from nasdaq first north to the nordic and baltic exchanges. our listing services business also includes npm, which provides liquidity solutions for private companies and private funds. npm's platform helps employees, investors, companies, funds and institutions execute transactions, whether for private companies, private investment funds, or other private asset classes. in december 2018, we launched a corporate bond exchange for the listing and trading of corporate bonds. the new exchange operates pursuant to the nasdaq stock market exchange license and is powered by the nasdaq financial framework, similar to the nasdaq fixed income platform. surveillance is conducted by the nasdaq regulatory team, assisted by our smarts surveillance solution. information services beginning in the second quarter of 2018, our information services segment was recategorized into the following businesses: market data; index; and investment data &amp; analytics. prior to the second quarter, our information services segment was comprised of our data products and our index licensing and services businesses. market data our market data business sells and distributes historical and real-time quote and trade information to the sell-side, the buy-side, retail online brokers, proprietary trading shops, other venues, internet portals and data distributors. our market data products enhance transparency of market activity within our exchanges and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors globally. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to our customers who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain access to our market depth, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every displayed price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx, nasdaq psx, nasdaq fixed income and other nordic markets. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost alternative to the industry level 1 feed and nasdaq canada basic, a low cost alternative to other high priced data feeds. we also provide a plethora of other data, including data relating to our six u.s. options exchanges, nordic and u.s. futures, nordic commodities, and u.s. treasuries. our market data business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the plan administrators sell quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, the plan administrators distribute the tape revenues to the respective plan participants based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. much like the u.s. products, european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview, and nordic fixed income totalview, level 2, analytics and fixings. index our index business develops and licenses nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives, and financial products and also provides custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. as of december 31, 2018, we had 365 etps licensed to nasdaq's indexes which had $172 billion in assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. 5 we provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch/global index file delivery service, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. we also operate the nasdaq global index family, which includes more than 40,000 indexes. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and approximately 9,000 securities. nasdaq dorsey wright, or ndw, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing, smart beta strategies, provides model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, as well as systematic relative strength strategies to manage separately and unified managed accounts. ndw strengthens nasdaq's position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. as of december 31, 2018, there were $7 billion in assets under management, or aum, in etps that track nasdaq smart beta indexes and $2 billion in aum and assets under advisement tracking ndw investment strategies and research. investment data &amp; analytics our investment data &amp; analytics business is a leading content and analytics cloud-based solutions provider used by asset managers, investment consultants and asset owners to help facilitate better investment decisions. through evestment, we offer leading content and analytics used by asset managers, investment consultants and asset owners to help facilitate institutional investment decisions. evestment provides a flexible suite of cloud-based solutions to help the institutional investing community identify and capitalize on global investment trends and select and monitor investment managers. evestment's products also enable asset managers to market their funds worldwide. additionally the nasdaq fund network gathers and distributes daily net asset values from over 35,000 funds and other investment vehicles across north america. in november 2018, we acquired quandl, inc., a premier marketplace for unique, alpha-generating alternative datasets as well as for economic and financial datasets. market technology powering over 100 market infrastructure operators in more than 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers, buy-side firms and corporate businesses. our solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including but not limited to cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and digital currencies. our solutions can also be used in the creation of new asset classes, and in 2018, nasdaq partnered with non-capital markets customers, including those in insurance liabilities securitization and digital advertising futures trading. nasdaq's market technology is utilized by leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia as well as emerging markets in the middle east, latin america, and africa. additionally, more than 160 market participants leverage our surveillance technology globally to manage their integrity obligations and assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. in january 2019, we completed a public offer to acquire cinnober, a major swedish financial technology provider to brokers, exchanges and clearinghouses worldwide that provides technology solutions similar and complimentary to our market technology business. we expect the integration of cinnober into our business to strengthen our position as a leading market infrastructure technology provider. market infrastructure operators (mio) &amp; new markets portfolio for mio's, we provide and deliver mission-critical solutions across the trade lifecycle via the nasdaq financial framework, which is our flexible and modular architecture and technology that provides next generation capital markets capabilities in an open and agile environment. the nasdaq financial framework is designed to cover all aspects of a market operator's needs, from trading and clearing to risk management, market surveillance, index development, data, management, testing and quality assurance. during 2018, we continued to invest in the nasdaq financial framework by enabling emerging technologies, including integrating blockchain technology for issuance and settlement of securities, cloud-enabled trading and clearing, and other blockchain and machine learning applications. in 2018, we launched our new markets initiative, which is focused on extending the nasdaq financial framework's capabilities outside of capital markets. market technology currently offers its services to a loyalty points exchange, digital advertising exchange, reinsurance market and three horse racing operators. many mio and new markets projects involve complex delivery management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects that involve migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in an information technology solution, as well as advisory services. buy- and sell-side portfolio in 2018, we continued to make progress in expanding our nasdaq financial framework offering to the bank and broker community. regulatory pressure across multiple jurisdictions has made outsourcing of front-office infrastructure an attractive option for sell-side organizations and, as a result, we offer trading and execution infrastructure for systematic internalizers, single-dealers platforms and both multi-lateral and organized trading facilities. 6 we also continue to gain market share for our smarts trade surveillance solution, which is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies, and tradeguard, which is a suite of products that offer a real-time, multi-tiered risk solution that integrates pre-, at- and on-trade risk management, including margining. in 2018, smarts received four industry awards and is now used by over 160 client firms globally. in 2018, we completed the integration of sybenetix, our market surveillance and fair investor allocation solution for the buy-side, and have begun deploying this solution to an expanded customer base. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. we have established a technology risk program to evaluate the resiliency of critical systems, including risks associated with cybersecurity. this program is focused on (i) identifying areas for improvement in systems and (ii) implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. we have continued our focus on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. see item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion. core technology. the nasdaq financial framework is nasdaq's approach to delivering end-to-end solutions for market infrastructure operators, buy-side firms, sell-side firms and other non-financial markets. the framework consists of a single operational core platform that ties together nasdaq's portfolio of functionality across the trade lifecycle, in an open framework whereby exchanges, clearinghouses, csds and other entities can easily integrate nasdaq's business applications with each other, as well as other third-party solutions. in addition to being able to integrate a broad range of business functions, the nasdaq financial framework enables end users to leverage recent technology developments, such as blockchain and machine learning. during 2018, nasdaq fixed income was replatformed using the nasdaq financial framework core platform. competitive strengths we are a global financial technology company that in recent years, through building on capital markets experience, technological expertise, and clear understanding of our client's needs, has diversified its product and service offerings. a unique value proposition we operate a diverse and resilient capital markets franchise with a marketplace core. our businesses provide capital-markets infrastructure services to industry players, allowing us to: develop efficient and reliable technologies to facilitate capital markets activity; manage the complexities and costs of business on a global scale; and provide data, tools and insights that drive sound decision making. technological strength we are living through a time where innovative technologies are transforming financial services. we have come a long way in trading since nasdaq launched the first fully electronic exchange in 1971 and we see forces accelerating that will bring major changes to the capital markets. the strength and resiliency of our technology, enhanced by our leading market technology business, in meeting the advancing demands of our global customer base is vital to the continued success of our business and distinguishes us from our competitors. a focus on client needs throughout the marketplace we strive to serve a diverse range of clients by: brokers and traders - helping brokers and traders to confidently plan, optimize and execute their business vision. market participants - enabling market participants to monitor and capitalize on real-time market changes. investors and asset managers - offering products and services to assist investors and asset managers in optimizing their portfolios and offerings. listed companies - promoting the capital health of our listed companies. private companies - working with private companies to meet liquidity needs, manage relationships with long-term institutional investors and oversee their entire equity program. market infrastructure players - assisting market infrastructure players (exchanges, regulators, clearinghouses, and central securities depositories) in increasing efficiency, meeting customer needs and growing revenue. capital-markets - delivering efficiencies through economies of scale (cost, speed, connectivity) to all members of the capital-markets ecosystem. competition market services we face intense competition in north america and europe in businesses that comprise our market services segment. we seek to provide market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, speed of execution, high levels of customer service, and efficient pricing. in both north america and europe, our competitors include other exchange operators, operators of non-exchange trading systems and banks and brokerages that operate their own internal trading pools and platforms. in the u.s., our options markets compete with exchanges operated by cboe global markets, inc., or cboe, miami international holdings, inc., or miami, and intercontinental exchange, inc., or ice. in cash equities, we compete with 7 exchanges operated by cboe and ice. in addition, competitors recently have launched, or announced a plan to launch, new exchanges, including one to be established by a group of our customers. in equities we also face competition from atss and other less-heavily regulated broker-owned systems, some of which are also known as dark pools, and from other types of otc trading. in canada, our cash equities exchange competes with exchanges such as the toronto stock exchange, or tsx, and other marketplaces. in europe, our cash equities markets compete with exchanges such as cboe, euronext n.v., deutsche b rse a.g. and london stock exchange group plc, or lse, and mtfs. our competitors in the trading and clearing of options and futures on european equities include the eurex group companies, or eurex, ice futures europe and the mtfs. in addition, in equities we face competition from other broker-owned systems, some of which are also known as systematic internalizers, and from other types of otc trading. competition among exchanges for trading european equity derivatives tends to occur where there is competition in the trading of the underlying equities. in addition to exchange-based competition, we face competition from otc derivative markets. the implementation of mifid ii and mifir is expected to lead to further competitive pressure on our european trading business. mtfs are already attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. with the regulatory environment likely to become more favorable to alternative trading venues, we expect such venues to compete aggressively for the trading of equity securities listed on our nordic exchanges. electronic trading systems pursuing block business also remain active in europe. trading on systematic internalizers has increased markedly as volume migrates from other types of trading venues. in responding to current and potential competition, we constantly review our pricing and product offerings. our ficc business also operates in an intensely competitive environment. our trading platform for benchmark u.s. treasuries faces competition from both long-established competitors, such as brokertec, and newly emerging electronic and voice brokerages, and the operating environment remains extremely challenging. our european fixed income products and services are subject to relentless competitive pressure from otc dealers as well as exchanges. our suite of commodity-related products and services is in many cases designed to challenge the more established players. our trade management services business competes with other exchange operators, extranet providers, and data center providers. corporate services in our corporate solutions business, competition is varied and can be fragmented. for our investor relations intelligence business, there are many regional competitors and relatively few global providers. other exchange operators are partnering with firms that have capabilities in this area and seeking to acquire relevant assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside listing services. the competitive landscape for our governance solutions business varies by customer sector and geography. most participants offer software-as-a-service solutions that are supported by a data center strategy. some firms offer specialized services that focus on a single niche sector. the larger players often offer additional services. customers frequently seek single-source providers that are able to address a broad range of needs within a single platform. our listing services business in both the u.s. and europe provides a means of facilitating capital formation through public capital markets. there are competing ways of raising capital, and we seek to demonstrate the benefits of listing shares on an exchange. our primary competitor for larger company stock share listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market competes with local and international markets located outside the u.s. for listings of equity securities of both u.s. and non-u.s. companies that choose to list (or dual-list) outside of their home country. for example, the nasdaq stock market competes for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the stock exchange of hong kong limited. the listings services business in europe is characterized by a large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges, which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, competing european exchanges that frequently attract many listings from outside their respective home countries include lse, euronext n.v. and deutsche b rse a.g. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies seeking capital or liquidity from public capital markets are able to raise capital without a regulated market listing and can consider trading their shares on smaller markets and quoting facilities. in risk intelligence, our products must compete with solutions that are often part of larger suites, such as those related to information technology management or general business management. information services our market data business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange's systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors to provide information to market participants. examples of our 8 competitors in proprietary data products are ice, cboe, tsx, and dow jones &amp; company. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on securities listed on other markets. our index business faces competition from providers of various competing financial indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers. our investment data &amp; analytics faces competition from a broad array of data and analytics suppliers, both established firms and small start-ups. the majority of the competitors today are offering only a portion of the solutions that we offer. our primary competitors are morningstar, factset, mercer and any number of smaller firms along with start-up data providers and aggregators. additionally other large providers to the financial services industry such as bloomberg and refinitiv are believed to be interested in pursuing certain aspects of the services we provide. market technology traditionally, exchanges and exchange-related businesses internally developed technology, sometimes aided by consultants. however, over time this model has changed as many operators have recognized the cost-savings made possible by buying technology from third parties. as a result, two types of competitors have emerged in our market technology segment: exchange operators and technology providers unaffiliated with exchanges. these organizations make available a range of off-the-shelf technology, including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination, and offer customization and operation expertise. market conditions in market technology are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment and innovation a necessity. a wide range of providers compete with us in surveillance. in surveillance, standardization of products and budget pressures drive customers to focus on pricing. intellectual property we believe that our intellectual property assets are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively create and maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets, including patents and patent applications related to our innovations, products and services; trademarks related to our brands, products and services; copyrights in software and creative content; trade secrets; and through other intellectual property rights, licenses of various kinds and contractual provisions. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and utilize non-disclosure agreements with third parties with whom we conduct business in order to secure and protect our proprietary rights and to limit access to, and disclosure of, our proprietary information. we own, or have licensed, rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the u.s. and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark that we actively seek to protect in the u.s. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s. and in many other jurisdictions across the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of our products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. no single patent is in itself core to the operations of nasdaq or any of its principal business areas. corporate venture practice we operate a corporate venture program to make minority investments primarily in emerging growth financial technology companies that are strategically relevant to, and aligned with, nasdaq. investments are made through the venture program to further our organic research and development efforts and accelerate the path to commercial viability. we expect that capital invested will continue to be modest and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, existing capital return or deployment priorities. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., canada and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. sros conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation's securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiaries. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and 9 protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro's own rules, impose many regulatory and operational responsibilities on sros, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. moreover, an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity, six options markets and one corporate bond market in the u.s. we operate the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market and the corporate bond market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market's sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx's sro license; nasdaq psx and nasdaq phlx pursuant to nasdaq phlx's sro license; and nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx, each operates an options market under its own sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of our exchanges are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros' rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to our markets, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our nasdaq regulation department. we review suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff, and depending on the nature of the activity, may refer the activity to finra for further investigation. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company's compliance with the nasdaq stock market's financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on the nasdaq stock market to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer's on-going compliance with the nasdaq stock market's continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and various state securities regulators. nasdaq operates five broker-dealers: nasdaq execution services, llc, execution access, llc, npm securities, smtx, llc, and nasdaq capital markets advisory llc. each broker-dealer is registered with the sec, a member of finra and registered in the u.s. states and territories required by the operation of its business. nasdaq execution services operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq's u.s. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. smtx acts as an intermediary to facilitate closings of, and introduce prospective accredited investors in connection with, private non-capital raising transactions. nasdaq capital markets advisory acts as a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during ipos and various other offerings., two of our broker-dealers also are registered with the sec as an ats. execution access operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including nasdaq fixed income's registered ats for u.s. treasury securities. npm securities operates an ats that facilitates the purchase and sale of ownership interests in primary and secondary transactions in certain funds (both registered or not registered under the investment company act of 1940), business development companies, certain closed end funds and private real estate investment funds. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer's dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec's 10 financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. our registered broker-dealers are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. as of december 31, 2018, each of our broker-dealers were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . our sros have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of common members of our sros and finra; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market serves as the processor for the utp plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in october 2015. the nasdaq stock market also serves as the administrator for the utp plan. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, the nasdaq stock market has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. as the administrator, the nasdaq stock market manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members in accordance with the terms of the utp plan and of regulation nms. regulation sci. regulation sci is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. we implemented an inter-disciplinary program to ensure compliance with regulation sci. new regulation sci policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was rolled out to ensure compliance. regulation of registered investment advisor subsidiary. our subsidiary dwa is an investment advisor registered with the sec under the investment advisors act of 1940. in this capacity, dwa is subject to oversight and inspections by the sec. among other things, registered investment advisors like dwa must comply with certain disclosure obligations, advertising and fee restrictions and requirements relating to client suitability and custody of funds and securities. registered investment advisors are also subject to anti-fraud provisions under both federal and state law. cftc regulation. we also operate nfx, a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. the national futures association provides regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. as a designated contract market, nfx is required to comply with 23 core principles set forth in section 5(d) of the commodity exchange act and with part 38 of the cftc's regulations. nfx is also subject to the requirements of part 40 11 of the cftc's regulations with respect to the adoption of new rules or rule amendments and the listing of new products. nfx is subject to cftc rule enforcement reviews conducted by the cftc's division of market oversight. rule enforcement reviews may examine a designated contract market's audit trail, trade practice surveillance, disciplinary and dispute resolution programs for compliance with the relevant core principles. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the u.s. and their customers. canadian regulation regulation of nasdaq canada is performed by the canadian securities administrators, an umbrella organization of canada's provincial and territorial securities regulators. as a recognized exchange in ontario, nasdaq canada must comply with the terms and conditions of its exchange recognition order. exempted from exchange recognition in each jurisdiction in canada other than ontario where nasdaq canada carries on business, nasdaq must comply with the terms and conditions of an exemption order granted by the other jurisdictions. oversight of the exchange is performed by the nasdaq canada's lead regulator, the ontario securities commission. nasdaq canada is subject to several national marketplace related instruments which set out requirements for marketplace operations, trading rules and managing electronic trading risk. exchange terms and conditions include but are not limited to, requirements for, governance, regulation, rules and rulemaking, fair access, conflict management and financial viability. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and the european economic area focuses on matters relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and settlement of securities and commodities as well as issues related to market abuse. in july 2016, the european union's market abuse regulation, which is intended to prevent market abuse, entered into force. mifid ii and mifir entered into force in january 2018 and primarily affect our european trading businesses. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir are implemented through technical standards drafted by the european securities and markets authority and approved by the european commission. in addition, in 2016, the european union adopted legislation on governance and control of the production and use of benchmark indexes. the benchmark regulation applies in the european union from early 2018. however, due to transitional clauses in the benchmark regulation, nasdaq as a benchmark provider, does not need to be in compliance with the benchmark regulation until january 1, 2020. as the regulatory environment continues to evolve and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue developing our products and services development to ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer fair and efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. as a result, we have a strong local presence in each jurisdiction in which we operate regulated businesses. the regulated entities have decision-making power and can adopt policies and procedures and retain resources to manage all operations subject to their license. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq clearing's role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is supervised by the sfsa and overseen by the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by the nasdaq stockholm exchange, through its surveillance function. nasdaq stockholm's exchange activities are regulated primarily by the ssma, which implements mifid ii into swedish law and which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange's articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq clearing holds the license as a ccp under emir. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange's rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners' interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa's supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange's obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which 12 issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in iceland, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. we operate a licensed exchange, nasdaq oslo asa, in norway that trades and lists commodity derivatives. although norway is not a member of the eu, as a result of the european economic area, or eea, agreement (agreement on the eea entered into between the eu and european free trade association) the regulatory environment is broadly similar to what applies in eu member states. in addition, in january 2019 new legislation entered into force in norway mirroring the provisions of mifid ii and mifir. as a result, the regulatory environment in norway is similar to sweden. the norwegian fsa supervises the norwegian exchange on an autonomous basis and the norwegian exchange has a separate market surveillance function overseen by the norwegian fsa. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is conceptually organized into two functions: one for the review and admission of listing applications and surveillance activities related to issuers (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at nasdaq oslo and each of the three baltic exchanges. in finland and sweden, decisions to list new companies are made by independent listing committees that have independent members in addition to members from each respective exchange and in the other countries the decision is made by the respective president of the exchange. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is handled by the respective surveillance department. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in denmark, finland, iceland and sweden. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country. employees as of december 31, 2018, nasdaq had 4,099 employees. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.business.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq's website and click on investor relations, then under financials click on sec filings. item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, changes in investment patterns and priorities, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken and result in slower growth or recessions, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a reduction in the demand for our products and services, including our market technology, data, index and corporate solutions, a decline in trading volumes or values and deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies. over 73% of our revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2018 were recurring or subscription-based and if adverse conditions cause our customers to delay or cancel existing orders or subscriptions, our revenues will decline. trading volumes and values are driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volumes or values may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, 13 our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. information services revenues may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market and in etp assets under management tracking nasdaq indexes. there may be less demand for our corporate solutions or market technology products if global economic conditions are weak. our customers historically cut back on purchases of new services and technology when growth rates decline, thereby reducing our opportunities to sell new products and services or upgrade existing products and services. a reduction in trading volumes or values, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for information services, market technology or corporate services products and services due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the industries we operate in are highly competitive. we face significant competition in our market technology, information services and corporate services businesses from other market participants. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. this competition includes both product and price competition. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have also merged to achieve greater economies of scale and scope. regulatory changes also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the european union that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may leverage data more effectively or enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors and new entrants, which could adversely impact operating results. we also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in addition, pricing in our corporate services, index licensing and services and market technology businesses is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in the industries in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if new systems fail to operate as intended or our existing systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in service outages, lower trading volumes or values, financial losses, decreased customer satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets and the markets that rely on our technology have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any volume increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not 14 occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position. we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products, initiatives and enhancements to existing products. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms, the rollout of our platforms and the adoption of new technologies, such as blockchain, machine intelligence and the cloud. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms or technologies will justify the related investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms or the adoption of new technologies, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. a decline in trading and clearing volumes or values or market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes and values are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes and values across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes or values. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume or value of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes or values would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes or values through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes or values may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities decreases relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower the nasdaq stock market's share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our data products business. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyberattack. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches. some of these threats include attacks from foreign governments, hacktivists, insiders and criminal organizations. foreign governments may seek to obtain a foothold in u.s. critical infrastructure, hacktivists may seek to deploy denial of service attacks to bring attention to their cause, insiders may pose a risk by human error or malicious activity and criminal organizations may seek to profit from stolen data. computer viruses and worms also continue to be a threat with ransomware increasingly being used by criminals to extort money. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach, collateral damage from a new virus or a non-malicious act, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volumes or values, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. any system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our platforms to include other 15 products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses, including quandl and cinnober. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies' operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or customers not renewing their contracts with us as we migrate platforms; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on, or provision of, transition services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. gaap and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies, pay dividends, repurchase our stock or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations that can be ambiguous and can change unexpectedly. 16 we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., europe and canada. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future that can change in response to global conditions and events. our ability to comply with complex and changing regulation is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks and regulatory obligations, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. for example, during 2016, the sfsa and the other nordic financial supervisory authorities conducted investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed this decision and the final outcome is still pending. in the future, we could be subject to regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. our clearinghouse operations expose us to risks, including credit or liquidity risks that may include defaults by clearing members, or insufficiencies in margins or default funds. we are subject to risks relating to our operation of a clearinghouse, including counterparty and liquidity risks, risk of defaults by clearing members and risks associated with adequacy of the customer margin and of default funds. our clearinghouse operations expose us to counterparties with differing risk profiles. we may be adversely impacted by the financial distress or failure of a clearing member, which may cause us negative financial impact, reputational harm or regulatory consequences, including litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. in september 2018, a member of the nasdaq clearing commodities market defaulted due to an inability to post sufficient collateral to cover increased margin requirements for the positions of the relevant member, which had experienced losses due to sharp adverse movements in the nordic - german power market spread. nasdaq clearing followed default procedures and offset the future market risk on the defaulting member's positions. the default resulted in a loss of $133 million which was allocated to nasdaq clearing and the members of the commodities default fund in accordance with the liability waterfall. to the extent that our regulatory capital and risk management policies are not adequate to manage future financial and operational risks in our clearinghouse, we may experience adverse consequences to our operating results or ability to conduct our business. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and proactively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with the industrial and commercial bank of china financial services llc, or icbc. as of december 31, 2018, we have contributed $15 million of clearing deposits to icbc in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by icbc through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the 17 individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. daily position trading limits are also enforced for such counterparties. although we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. favorable sec rulings and interpretations can be challenged in and reversed by federal courts of appeals, reducing or eliminating the value of such prior interpretations. nfx, our futures exchange, is also regulated by the cftc and subject to a requirement to self-certify changes to these rules by filing with the cftc. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in 2016, the sec approved a plan for nasdaq and other exchanges to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail, or cat, to improve regulators' ability to monitor trading activity. in addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail has resulted in significant additional expenditures, including to implement the new technology to meet any plan's requirements. creating cat has required the development and implementation of complex and costly technology. this development effort has been funded by the sros (including nasdaq) in exchange for promissory notes that nasdaq expects to be repaid at such time that the sec approves the assessment of fees for the funding of cat. the sec could determine not to approve the assessment of such fees in which case some or all of the promissory notes would not be repaid. in addition, the ongoing failure to timely launch or properly operate such technology exposes nasdaq and other exchanges to sec fines. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sros. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer's net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. in these countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities' requirements. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure, technological oversight and transaction fees. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. 18 industry responses to the mifid ii and mifir rules, eu benchmark regulation or other applicable rules could affect our operations in europe. changes to the rules themselves could also affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe could have a material impact on our business. with respect to our regulated businesses, our business model can be severely impacted by policy decisions. for example, the sec has recently proposed an exchange transaction fee pilot program that could result in future regulatory changes and we, along with other stock exchanges, have challenged the sec's order adopting the program in a court action. our opponents in some market are larger and better funded and, if successful in influencing certain policies, may successfully advocate for positions that adversely impact our business. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs, including litigation costs, and other obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. in october 2018, the sec determined that we had not established that a fee for one of our data products was fair and reasonable, and also directed us to establish a procedure for reviewing other challenged fees. we have appealed both sec actions to a federal appeals court. if the results of appeals, or further actions by the sec, are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges' ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our data products revenues. in canada, all new marketplace fees and changes to existing fees, including trading and data fees, must be filed with and approved by the ontario securities commission. in 2016, the canadian securities administrators approved amendments adopting a data fees methodology that restricts the total amount of fees that can be charged by all marketplaces to a reference level that is not yet defined. when a reference is established, all marketplaces will be subject to annual reviews of their market data fees tying market data revenues to market share. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. the mifid ii/mifir rules entail that the price for regulated data such as pre- and post-trade data shall be based on cost plus a reasonable margin. however, what constitutes reasonable margin is not clearly defined. there is a risk that a different interpretation of this term may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition, any future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner as today, thereby causing an adverse effect on our data products revenues. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. nasdaq, as technology provider to the utp operating committee, implemented in 2016 measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. additionally, the utp operating committee approved nasdaq's proposal to transfer the processor technology from its current enhanced platform to our inet platform. the migration, which was completed in late 2016, further enhanced the resiliency of the processor systems. in 2018, we further improved the systems resiliency by adding the utp snapshot service. however if, despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. our operational processes are subject to the risk of error, which may result in financial loss or reputational damage. we have instituted extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations; however, such risk cannot completely be eliminated. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets. some of our operations require complex processes, and the introduction of new products or services or changes in processes or reporting due to regulatory requirements may result in an increased risk of errors for a period after implementation. data, other content or information that we distribute may contain errors or be delayed, causing reputational harm. use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us in the event of such delay or error. even with a favorable outcome, significant litigation against us might unduly burden management, personnel, financial and other resources. in addition, the sophisticated software we sell to our customers may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may be discovered only after delivery. these errors may result in negative customer experiences that could damage our reputation, thereby causing loss of customers, loss of revenues and liability for damages, thereby adversely affecting our business and financial results. 19 uncertainty relating to the united kingdom's exit from the european union could cause uncertainty and adversely impact our business. we continue to evaluate the potential effect of the united kingdom's planned departure from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit) on our business operations and financial results. if the united kingdom's membership in the european union terminates without an agreement for the united kingdom's orderly departure from the european union there could be unfavorable consequences including a deterioration of general economic conditions, increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and european union, volatility of foreign exchange rates and legal uncertainty. brexit may also have adverse tax effects on movement of products or activities between the uk and eu. currently, we do not anticipate that brexit will have a material impact on our operations or our financial results. while we have operations in the uk, these operations are limited in scope and not material to our overall business. however, we may be impacted if our customers in the uk are subject to additional costs or restrictions in accessing our products or services. in addition, the overall impact of brexit may create further global economic uncertainty, which may adversely impact the activities of our customers. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may affect our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal and contractual requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data continue to evolve; regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently across jurisdictions and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which became effective in may 2018, extends the scope of the european union data protection law and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition to directly applying to certain nasdaq business activities, this regulation impacts many of our customers, which may affect their requirements and decisions related to services that we offer. although we have implemented a program to address gdpr requirements, our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could impact the services that we offer. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. stagnation or decline in the listings market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for listings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. a stagnation or decline in the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges could cause a decrease in revenues for future years. furthermore, a prolonged decrease in the number of listings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. our corporate solutions business is also impacted by declines in the listings market or increases in acquisitions activity as there will be fewer publicly-traded customers that need our products. our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term debt and commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and corporate development activity, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting our industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our commercial paper and other outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and most tranches of our senior notes fluctuates based on our credit ratings. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based, corporate solutions and market 20 technology products, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our data products business and the accuracy of calculations used by our index licensing and services business for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; any negative publicity surrounding the use of our products or\and services by our customers, including in connection with emerging asset classes such as crypto assets; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volumes or values on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our data products, index licensing and services, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2018, goodwill totaled $6.4 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $2.3 billion . the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity and cost method investments and property and equipment, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. we estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows. considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. however, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2018 and 2017. as discussed in goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million in 2016. we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. for additional discussion of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including related impairment, see goodwill and related impairment, indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, and other long-lived assets and related impairment, of critical accounting policies and estimates, of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and valuation of other long-lived assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 5, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in finance and technology; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes or values. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancings. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels are based on our 21 expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management's expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2018 was $3.8 billion. we may borrow additional amounts by utilizing available liquidity under our existing credit facilities or issuing short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes through our commercial paper program. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; and increase our cost of debt and reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, dispose of assets and pay dividends (although we are permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock). failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, employment, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls, foreign corrupt practices areas, employee labor and employment areas, including anti-discrimination and fair-pay laws and regulations. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of an sro. although our u.s. cash equity and options exchanges outsource a portion of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges monitor trading and compliance with listing standards in accordance with the european union's market abuse regulation and other applicable laws. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners, employees and others. however, the efforts we have 22 taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient, or effective, at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. however, effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services and products are offered. moreover, changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, could also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. in particular, recent amendments to the u.s. patent law may affect our ability to protect and defend our innovations. there is also a risk that the scope of protection under our patents may not be sufficient in some cases, or that existing patents may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, data storage, data content, clearing and other services. to the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. in addition, unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. acquisitions, dispositions, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. we also may divest additional businesses or assets in the future. although we cannot predict our transactional activities with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions, divestments, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities will be important to our strategy. such transactions may be material in size and scope. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us. we also invest in startups through our nasdaq venture program and also hold minority interests in other entities. given the size of these investments, we do not have operational control of these entities and may have limited visibility into risk management practices. thus, we may be subject to additional capital requirements in certain circumstances and financial and reputational risks if there are operational failures. we may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit rating agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance a transaction could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. 23 furthermore, any future transactions could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-transaction business relationships; reliance on, or provision of, transition services; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; risks associated with divesting employees, customers or vendors when divesting businesses or assets; declines in the value of investments; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers or technology personnel, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, including but not limited to northern europe, the baltics, the middle east, africa and asia. therefore, our non-u.s. operations are subject to the risk inherent in the international environment. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of our non-u.s. locations could adversely affect our operations and financial results. some locations, such as lithuania, india and the philippines, may increase risk. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. unforeseen or catastrophic events could interrupt our critical business functions. in addition, our u.s. and european businesses are heavily concentrated in particular areas and may be adversely affected by events in those areas. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, extreme weather, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, theft, sabotage and vandalism. given our position in the global capital markets, we may be more likely than other companies to be a target for malicious disruption activities. in addition, our u.s. and european business operations are heavily concentrated in the u.s. east coast, and stockholm respectively. any event that impacts either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans and capabilities for critical systems and business functions to mitigate the risk of an interruption. in april 2018, nasdaq activated its disaster recovery and business continuity plans when its primary data center site in vasby, sweden became unavailable due to an errant fire suppression system. any interruption in our critical business functions or systems could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. for example, some co-location customers lack adequate disaster recovery solutions to avoid loss of trade flow from a sustained interruption of our critical systems. because we have operations in numerous countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the u.k., australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, changes in local interest rates or other factors. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the 24 preparation of our consolidated financial statements and could adversely affect our financial results. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we utilize widely-accepted methods to identify, assess, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq's global risk management committee, which comprises senior executives and has responsibility for regularly reviewing risks and referring significant risks to the board of directors or specific board committees. by definition, some risk management methods require subjective evaluation of dynamic information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that variable information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if we do not successfully identify, assess, monitor or manage the risks to which we are exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, integration and restructuring costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; we may incur additional costs from integrating our acquisitions. the success of our acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses into our existing operations and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities; and we may incur restructuring costs in connection with the reorganization of any of our businesses. decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. our board of directors regularly declares quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq's board of directors. the board's determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law restrict the ownership and voting of our common stock. in addition, such provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec's concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries include a prohibition on any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries also require the sec's approval of any business ventures with exchange members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. 25 section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation's board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 33 segment operating results the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) market services $ 2,709 $ 2,418 $ 2,255 12.0 % 7.2 % transaction-based expenses (1,751 ) (1,537 ) (1,428 ) 13.9 % 7.6 % market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 958 881 827 8.7 % 6.5 % corporate services 528 501 477 5.4 % 5.0 % information services 714 588 540 21.4 % 8.9 % market technology 270 247 241 9.3 % 2.5 % other revenues (1) 56 194 $ 191 (71.1 )% 1.6 % total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,526 $ 2,411 $ 2,276 4.8 % 5.9 % ____________ (1) includes the revenues from the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses which were sold in april 2018. prior to the sale date, these revenues were included in our corporate solutions business. see 2018 divestiture, of note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the following charts show our market services, corporate services, information services and market technology segments as a percentage of our total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,526 million in 2018, $2,411 million in 2017 and $2,276 million in 2016: 34 35 market services the following table shows total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 849 $ 752 $ 541 12.9 % 39.0 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (506 ) (450 ) (288 ) 12.4 % 56.3 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (44 ) (43 ) (25 ) 2.3 % 72.0 % equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 299 259 228 15.4 % 13.6 % cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,476 1,279 1,349 15.4 % (5.2 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (830 ) (692 ) (785 ) 19.9 % (11.8 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (361 ) (334 ) (309 ) 8.1 % 8.1 % cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 285 253 255 12.6 % (0.8 )% ficc revenues 92 96 99 (4.2 )% (3.0 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (8 ) (16 ) (19 ) (50.0 )% (15.8 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) % % ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses 82 78 78 5.1 % % trade management services revenues 292 291 266 0.3 % 9.4 % total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 958 $ 881 $ 827 8.7 % 6.5 % ____________ (1) includes section 31 fees of $39 million in 2018, $40 million in 2017, and $24 million in 2016. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. (2) includes section 31 fees of $343 million in 2018, $319 million in 2017, and $290 million in 2016. section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increases in 2018 were primarily due to higher u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the increases in 2017 were primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016, higher u.s. industry trading volumes and an increase in our overall matched market share executed on nasdaq's u.s. exchanges. further impacting the increase in equity derivative trading revenues was higher section 31 pass-through fee revenue. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees decreased slightly in 2018 compared with 2017 and increased in 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of section 31 fees from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in both 36 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of rebates associated with our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016, increases in the u.s. rebate capture rate, higher u.s. industry trading volumes, and an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased slightly in 2018 compared with 2017. the increase was primarily due to higher routing fees partially offset by lower section 31 pass-through fees. the increase in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees, associated with our acquisition of ise, as discussed above. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2018 compared 2017 and decreased in 2017 compared with 2016. the increases in 2018 were primarily due to higher u.s. and european industry trading volumes and an increase in our overall matched market share executed on nasdaq's u.s. exchanges. further impacting the increase in cash equity trading revenues in 2018 was an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2017 compared with 2016. the decreases in 2017 were primarily due to: lower u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by; higher european industry trading volumes; and an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share and european market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. the decrease in cash equity trading revenues in 2017 was also partially offset by an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenue. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges, partially offset by lower average sec fee rates. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges and higher average sec fee rates. transaction rebates increased in 2018 compared with 2017 and decreased in 2017 compared with 2016. for the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq psx and nasdaq canada, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for nasdaq bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges and higher u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by a decrease in the u.s. rebate capture rate. the decrease in 2017 was primarily due to lower u.s. industry trading volumes, partially offset by an increase in our matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increases were primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees, as discussed above. ficc revenues ficc revenues decreased in 2018 compared with the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decline in revenues related to u.s. fixed income products. ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses increased in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to higher net revenues at nfx, partially offset by a decline in revenues related to u.s. fixed income products. ficc revenues decreased in 2017 compared with the same period in 2016 primarily due to volume declines in european commodities products and u.s. fixed income products, partially offset by higher volumes and pricing changes at nfx. ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses were flat in 2017 compared with 2016 as declines in european commodities products and u.s. fixed income products were offset by higher volumes and pricing changes at nfx. trade management services revenues trade management services revenues increased slightly in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to an increase in co-location revenues, partially offset by a decline in port connectivity revenues. the increase in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to an increase in customer demand for third party connectivity, co-location, and test facilities and the inclusion of a full year of revenues from our acquisition of ise compared with six months in 2016. 37 corporate services the following table shows revenues from our corporate services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) corporate services: corporate solutions $ 238 $ 234 $ 208 1.7 % 12.5 % listing services 290 267 269 8.6 % (0.7 )% total corporate services $ 528 $ 501 $ 477 5.4 % 5.0 % corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in board &amp; leadership revenues and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by a decrease in our governance, risk &amp; compliance revenues. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of boardvantage. see acquisition of boardvantage, of note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the boardvantage acquisition. listing services revenues listing services revenues increased in 2018 compared with 2017 and decreased in 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily from client adoption of our all-inclusive annual listing fee program and an increase in the number and size of ipos, partially offset by the run-off of fees earned from u.s. listing of additional shares. the decrease in 2017 was primarily due to a decrease in u.s. listing of additional share fees as a result of our all-inclusive annual listing fee program, partially offset by an increase in european listing services revenues due to new company listings. * * * * * * information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) information services: market data $ 390 $ 369 $ 354 5.7 % 4.2 % index 206 171 149 20.5 % 14.8 % investment data &amp; analytics 118 48 37 145.8 % 29.7 % total information services $ 714 $ 588 $ 540 21.4 % 8.9 % market data revenues market data revenues increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher revenues from sales of data subscriptions (notably growth in the asia pacific region), an increase in market share in u.s. tape plans and higher revenues from under reported usage. further impacting the increase in market data revenues was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to growth in u.s. equities and european data products subscriptions. index revenues index revenues increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increases in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily due to higher assets under management in etps linked to nasdaq indexes and higher licensing revenues from futures trading volume related to the nasdaq 100 index. investment data &amp; analytics revenues investment data &amp; analytics revenues increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increases in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of evestment. 38 market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) market technology $ 270 $ 247 $ 241 9.3 % 2.5 % market technology revenues market technology revenues increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in delivery and support revenues and higher software as a service revenues, partially offset by a decrease in change request and advisory revenues and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher change request revenues and an increase in revenues from software as a service. other revenues other revenues include the revenues from the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses which were sold in april 2018. prior to the sale date, these revenues were included in our corporate solutions business. see 2018 divestiture, of note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 712 $ 670 $ 665 6.3 % 0.8 % professional and contract services 144 153 153 (5.9 )% % computer operations and data communications 127 125 111 1.6 % 12.6 % occupancy 95 94 86 1.1 % 9.3 % general, administrative and other 120 82 73 46.3 % 12.3 % marketing and advertising 37 31 30 19.4 % 3.3 % depreciation and amortization 210 188 170 11.7 % 10.6 % regulatory 32 33 35 (3.0 )% (5.7 )% merger and strategic initiatives 21 44 76 (52.3 )% (42.1 )% restructuring charges 41 % (100.0 )% total operating expenses $ 1,498 $ 1,420 $ 1,440 5.5 % (1.4 )% the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2018 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs resulting from our acquisition of evestment and higher compensation expense reflecting higher performance incentives, partially offset by lower compensation costs due to the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses. the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2017 was primarily due to overall higher compensation costs resulting from our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by lower compensation expense reflecting lower performance incentives. also impacting the increase in compensation expense in 2017 was accelerated expense recorded in 2016 for equity awards previously granted due to the retirement of the company's former ceo. headcount decreased to 4,099 employees as of december 31, 2018 from 4,734 as of december 31, 2017 primarily due to the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses, partially offset by our 2018 acquisitions. professional and contract services expense decreased in 2018 primarily due to the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses, partially offset by additional expense associated with our 2017 acquisitions and litigation costs. computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2018 primarily due to higher market data feed costs 39 due to higher volumes as well as higher software maintenance costs, and additional costs associated with our 2017 acquisitions, partially offset by lower costs resulting from the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses. the increase in 2017 was due to higher hardware and license costs associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions. occupancy expense increased in 2018 primarily due to additional facility and rent costs resulting from expansion of our new world headquarters, partially offset by lower costs from the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses. the increase in 2017 was associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions. the increase in general, administrative and other expense in 2018 was primarily due to charges associated with the clearing default and lower regulatory fine collections. see nasdaq commodities clearing default, of note 15, clearing operations, for further discussion of the capital relief program and default. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to a pre-tax charge of $10 million in the second quarter of 2017 which primarily included a make-whole redemption price premium paid on the early extinguishment of previously outstanding debt and lower regulatory fine collections. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to an increase in advertising spend relating to our listing services and information services businesses. depreciation and amortization expense increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets. the increase in 2018 was associated with our 2017 acquisition and in the increase in 2017 was associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions. the increase in 2018 was also associated with software assets placed in service. merger and strategic initiatives expense decreased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016. we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed a divestiture and a number of acquisitions in recent years which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third party transaction costs and will vary based on the size and frequency of the activities described above. see note 18, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2016. * * * * * * non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) interest income $ 10 $ 7 $ 5 42.9 % 40.0 % interest expense (150 ) (143 ) (135 ) 4.9 % 5.9 % net interest expense (140 ) (136 ) (130 ) 2.9 % 4.6 % gain on sale of investment security 118 n/m % net gain on divestiture of businesses 33 n/m % asset impairment charge (578 ) % (100.0 )% other investment income 7 2 3 250.0 % (33.3 )% net income from unconsolidated investees 18 15 2 20.0 % 650.0 % total non-operating income (expenses) $ 36 $ (119 ) $ (703 ) (130.3 )% (83.1 )% _______ n/m - not meaningful. interest income interest income increased in both 2018 compared with 2017 and 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to an increase in prevailing market rates. 40 interest expense the following table shows our interest expense: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 (in millions) interest expense on debt $ 140 $ 135 $ 129 3.7 % 4.7 % accretion of debt issuance costs and debt discount 7 6 5 16.7 % 20.0 % other bank and investment-related fees 3 2 1 50.0 % 100.0 % interest expense $ 150 $ 143 $ 135 4.9 % 5.9 % interest expense increased in both 2018 and 2017 primarily due to higher interest rates on floating rate debt and debt issuances related to our acquisitions. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. gain on sale of investment security in december 2018, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $118 million ($93 million after tax) on the sale of an investment security. see equity securities, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. net gain on divestiture of businesses in april 2018, we sold our public relations solutions and digital media services businesses. see 2018 divestiture, of note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. asset impairment charge the asset impairment charge in 2016 relates to a pre-tax, non-cash intangible asset impairment charge related to the full write-off of a trade name from an acquired business due to a continued decline in the operating performance of the business during 2016 and a rebranding of our fixed income business under a single brand called nasdaq fixed income. other investment income other investment income in 2018 primarily related to dividend income received on an equity security. net income from unconsolidated investees net income from unconsolidated investees in both 2018 and 2017 primarily relates to income recognized from our equity method investment in occ. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our equity method investments. * * * * * * tax matters the following table shows our income tax provision and effective tax rate: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 ($ in millions) income tax provision $ 606 $ 143 $ 27 323.8 % 429.6 % effective tax rate 57.0 % 16.4 % 20.3 % the majority of the increase in our effective tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 and the decrease in our effective tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was the result of the final and provisional impacts from the tax cuts and jobs act which was enacted on december 22, 2017. for further discussion of the impacts of the tax act and other tax matters, see note 17, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our ongoing operating performance. 41 these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they highlight trends more clearly in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our ongoing operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting for the following items: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets: we amortize intangible assets acquired in connection with various acquisitions. intangible asset amortization expense can vary from period to period due to episodic acquisitions completed, rather than from our ongoing business operations. as such, if intangible asset amortization is included in performance measures, it is more difficult to assess the day-to-day operating performance of the businesses, the relative operating performance of the businesses between periods, and the earnings power of nasdaq. performance measures excluding intangible asset amortization therefore provide investors with a more useful representation of our businesses' ongoing activity in each period. merger and strategic initiatives expense: we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed a divestiture and a number of acquisitions in recent years which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third party transaction costs. the frequency and the amount of such expenses vary significantly based on the size, timing and complexity of the transaction. accordingly, we exclude these costs for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures which provide a more meaningful analysis of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparisons in nasdaq's performance between periods. clearing default: for the year ended december 31, 2018 , we recorded $31 million in expense related to the clearing default of a nasdaq clearing commodities member that occurred in september 2018. we recorded an $8 million loss in september 2018 relating to this default. in december 2018, we recorded a $23 million charge as a result of initiating a capital relief program. these charges are recorded in general, administrative and o ther expense in our consolidated statements of income. see nasdaq commodities clearing default, of note 15, clearing operations, for further discussion of the default. we have excluded these charges as we believe they are non-recurring, as there has never been a loss due to member default in our clearinghouse, and they should be excluded when evaluating the ongoing operating performance of nasdaq. any expenses associated with the enhancement of processes and procedures relating to our clearing business will not be excluded from our gaap results. other significant items: we have excluded certain other charges or gains, including certain tax items, that are the result of other non-comparable events to measure operating performance. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the ongoing financial results of nasdaq. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , other significant items primarily included: gain on sale of investment security which represents our pre-tax gain of $118 million on the sale of our 5.0% ownership interest in lch; net gain on divestiture of businesses which represents our pre-tax net gain of $33 million on the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses; other items: charges related to uncertain positions pertaining to sales and use tax and vat which are recorded in general, administrative and other expense in our consolidated statements of income; and certain litigation costs which are recorded in professional and contract services expense in our consolidated statements of income. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , other significant items primarily included: loss on extinguishment of debt of $10 million which is recorded in general, administrative and other expense in our consolidated statements of income; and wind down costs associated with an equity method investment that was previously written off which are recorded in net income from unconsolidated investees in our consolidated statements of income. for the year ended december 31, 2016, other significant items primarily included: restructuring charges of $41 million which were associated with our 2015 restructuring plan; an asset impairment charge of $578 million related to the full write-off of a trade name from an acquired business; 42 executive compensation of $12 million which represents accelerated expense for equity awards previously granted due to the retirement of the company's former ceo which is recorded in compensation and benefits expense in our consolidated statements of income; a regulatory matter that resulted in a regulatory fine of $6 million received by our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse which is recorded in regulatory expense in our consolidated statements of income; other items: the release of a sublease loss reserve due to the early exit of a facility which is recorded in occupancy expense in our consolidated statements of income; and the impact of the write-off of an equity method investment, partially offset by a gain resulting from the sale of a percentage of a separate equity method investment which is recorded in net income from unconsolidated investees in our consolidated statements of income. significant tax items: the non-gaap adjustment to the income tax provision included the tax impact of each non-gaap adjustment and: for the year ended december 31, 2018 , a net $7 million increase to tax expense due to a remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefits (excluding the reversal of certain swedish tax benefits discussed below) and the impact of state tax rate changes; for the year ended december 31, 2017 , a $12 million decrease to tax expense due to a remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefits; and for the year ended december 31, 2016, a tax expense of $27 million due to an unfavorable tax ruling received during the second quarter of 2016, the impact of which is related to prior periods. additional adjustments included the following items: the impact of newly enacted u.s. tax legislation is related to the tax cuts and jobs act which was enacted on december 22, 2017. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , we recorded an increase to tax expense of $290 million and a reduction to deferred tax assets related to foreign currency translation as a result of the finalization of the provisional estimate related to this act. for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded a decrease to tax expense of $89 million, p rimarily related to the remeasurement of our net u.s. deferred tax liability at the lower u.s. federal corporate income tax rate which reflected the provisional impact associated with the enactment of this act. the reversal of certain swedish tax benefits. see note 17, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation of $9 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 and $40 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, were recorded as a result of the adoption of accounting guidance on january 1, 2017. this guidance requires all income tax effects of share-based awards to be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled on a prospective basis, as opposed to stockholders' equity where it was previously recorded, and will be a recurring item going forward. this item is subject to volatility and will vary based on the timing of the vesting of employee share-based compensation arrangements and fluctuation in our stock price. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the financial results of nasdaq. 43 the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except share and per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 458 $ 2.73 $ 729 $ 4.30 $ 106 $ 0.63 non-gaap adjustments: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 109 0.65 92 0.54 82 0.49 merger and strategic initiatives expense 21 0.13 44 0.26 76 0.45 clearing default 31 0.18 gain on sale of investment security (118 ) (0.69 ) net gain on divestiture of businesses (33 ) (0.20 ) extinguishment of debt 10 0.06 restructuring charges 41 0.24 asset impairment charge 578 3.42 executive compensation 12 0.07 regulatory matter 6 0.04 other 17 0.10 5 0.02 5 0.03 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments and other tax items 4 0.02 (70 ) (0.40 ) (287 ) (1.70 ) impact of newly enacted u.s. tax legislation 290 1.73 (89 ) (0.52 ) reversal of certain swedish tax benefits 41 0.24 excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation (9 ) (0.05 ) (40 ) (0.24 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 353 2.11 (48 ) (0.28 ) 513 3.04 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 811 $ 4.84 $ 681 $ 4.02 $ 619 $ 3.67 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 167,691,299 169,585,031 168,800,997 * * * * * * liquidity and capital resources historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock. see non-cash contingent consideration, of note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in april 2017, we entered into the 2017 credit facility which replaced a former credit facility. we also entered into a commercial paper program which enables us to borrow efficiently at reasonable short-term interest rates and is supported by our 2017 credit facility. see commercial paper program, and 2017 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as of december 31, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding on the 2017 credit facility. the $4 million balance represents unamortized debt issuance costs. of the $1 billion that is available for borrowing, $277 million provides liquidity support for the commercial paper program and for a letter of 44 credit. as such, as of december 31, 2018 , the total remaining amount available under the 2017 credit facility was $723 million . in the near term, we expect that our operations and the availability under our revolving credit commitment and commercial paper program will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. the value of various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and commercial paper can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $ (200) million as of december 31, 2018 , compared with $ 276 million as of december 31, 2017 , a decrease of $ 476 million . current asset balance changes increased working capital by $860 million , with increases in default funds and margin deposits, cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, at fair value, receivables, net and restricted cash, partially offset by a decrease in other current assets. current liability balance changes decreased working capital by $1,336 million , due to increases in default funds and margin deposits, short-term debt, other current liabilities, deferred revenue, accrued personnel costs, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by a decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in regulatory and working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facilities that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates under our credit facilities; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility or disruption in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 545 $ 377 restricted cash 41 22 financial investments, at fair value 268 235 total financial assets $ 854 $ 634 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents includes all non-restricted cash in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2018 , our cash and cash equivalents of $545 million were primarily invested in bank deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2018 increased $168 million from december 31, 2017 , primarily due to: net cash provided by operating activities; proceeds from divestiture of businesses, net; proceeds received from the sale of an investment security, partially offset by; repurchases of our common stock; cash dividends paid on our common stock; repayments made on commercial paper, net; repayments of long-term debt; purchases of property and equipment; cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired and other investment activities; net purchases of securities; and net payments related to employee stock activity. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. restricted cash is restricted from withdrawal due to a contractual or regulatory requirements or is not available for general use. restricted cash was $41 million as of december 31, 2018 and $22 million as of december 31, 2017 , an increase of $19 million . the increase primarily relates to an increase in cash pledged as collateral and an increase in regulatory capital requirements. restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $367 million as of december 31, 2018 and $137 million as of december 31, 2017 . the remaining 45 balance held in the u.s. totaled $178 million as of december 31, 2018 and $240 million as of december 31, 2017 . unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. share repurchase program see share repurchase program, of note 12, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash dividends on common stock the following table shows quarterly cash dividends paid per common share on our outstanding common stock: 2018 2017 first quarter $ 0.38 $ 0.32 second quarter 0.44 0.38 third quarter 0.44 0.38 fourth quarter 0.44 0.38 total $ 1.70 $ 1.46 see cash dividends on common stock, of note 12, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $268 million as of december 31, 2018 and $235 million as of december 31, 2017 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities. of these securities, $166 million as of december 31, 2018 and $160 million as of december 31, 2017 are assets primarily utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements, mainly for our clearing operations at nasdaq clearing. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading investment securities. * * * * * * debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) short-term debt: commercial paper weighted-average maturity of 33 days $ 275 $ 480 senior unsecured floating rate notes (1) march 2019 500 498 $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility (2) november 2019 100 100 total short-term debt 875 1,078 long-term debt: 5.55% senior unsecured notes january 2020 599 599 3.875% senior unsecured notes june 2021 686 716 $1 billion revolving credit commitment april 2022 (4 ) 110 1.75% senior unsecured notes may 2023 682 712 4.25% senior unsecured notes june 2024 497 496 3.85% senior unsecured notes june 2026 496 496 total long-term debt 2,956 3,129 total debt obligations $ 3,831 $ 4,207 ____________ (1) balance was reclassified to short-term debt as of march 31, 2018. (2) balance was reclassified to short-term debt as of december 31, 2018. in addition to the $1 billion revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities primarily related to our nasdaq clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity. other credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, totaled $220 million as of december 31, 2018 and $187 million as of december 31, 2017 , in available liquidity, none of which was utilized. 46 as of december 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. * * * * * * regulatory capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. as of december 31, 2018 , our required regulatory capital of $121 million is primarily comprised of highly rated european government debt securities that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx, and nasdaq capital markets advisory, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. the required minimum net capital is included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. the following table summarizes the net capital requirements for our broker-dealer subsidiaries as of december 31, 2018 : broker-dealer subsidiaries total net capital required minimum net capital excess capital (in millions) nasdaq execution services $ 16.3 $ 0.3 $ 16.0 execution access 47.1 0.3 46.8 npm securities 0.6 0.3 0.3 smtx 4.0 0.3 3.7 nasdaq capital markets advisory 0.5 0.3 0.2 nordic and baltic exchange regulatory capital requirements the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations and are required to maintain regulatory capital intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. as of december 31, 2018, our required regulatory capital of $34 million is primarily invested in european mortgage bonds that are included in financial investments, at fair value and restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. other capital requirements we operate several other businesses which are subject to local regulation and are required to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. as of december 31, 2018, other required regulatory capital was $17 million and was primarily included in restricted cash and financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. * * * * * * cash flow analysis the following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 net cash provided by (used in): (in millions) operating activities $ 1,028 $ 909 $ 776 13.1 % 17.1 % investing activities 196 (890 ) (1,657 ) (122.0 )% (46.3 )% financing activities (1,027 ) (53 ) 948 1,837.7 % (105.6 )% effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (10 ) 15 (6 ) (166.7 )% (350.0 )% net increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 187 (19 ) 61 (1,084.2 )% (131.1 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 399 418 357 (4.5 )% 17.1 % cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 586 $ 399 $ 418 46.9 % (4.5 )% 47 net cash provided by operating activities net cash provided by operating activities increased $119 million in 2018 compared with 2017 and increased $133 million in 2017 compared with 2016. the increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher operating income due to growth in our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, market data, index and listing services businesses, and growth related to a full year of evestment activity, these increases were partially offset by an increase in estimated tax payments, a payment to increase the funded status of our u.s. defined-benefit pension plans and higher section 31 fee payments. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to higher net income, mainly due to the inclusion of a full year of cash flows from our 2016 acquisitions, partially offset by higher compensation payments driven by our 2016 acquisitions. net cash provided by (used in) investing activities net cash provided by investing activities increased $1,086 million in 2018 compared with 2017. the increase was primarily due to a decrease in cash flows used for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, an increase in proceeds from divestiture of businesses, net and an increase in proceeds from the sale of an investment security. net cash used in investing activities decreased $767 million in 2017 compared with 2016. the decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cash flows used for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired. net cash provided by (used in) financing activities net cash used in financing activities increased $974 million in 2018 compared with 2017. the increase was primarily due to an increase in repayments of commercial paper, a decrease in proceeds from long-term debt issuances, and an increase in repurchases of common stock and dividends paid, partially offset by a decrease in repayments of long-term debt. net cash used in financing activities increased $1,001 million in 2018 compared with 2017. the increase was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from long-term debt issuances and an increase in repurchases of common stock and dividends paid, partially offset by an increase in proceeds from commercial paper and a decrease in repayments of long-term debt. see note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our divestiture and acquisitions. see equity securities, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the sale of an investment security and consideration received under a market technology agreement. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. see share repurchase program, and cash dividends on common stock, of note 12, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program and cash dividends paid on our common stock. 48 contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2018 : payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 4,311 $ 996 $ 1,463 $ 793 $ 1,059 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 637 75 131 86 345 purchase obligations (3) 21 11 10 other obligations (4) 12 12 total $ 4,981 $ 1,094 $ 1,604 $ 879 $ 1,404 ____________ (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. as of december 31, 2018 , an interest rate of 4.04% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2016 credit facility, 3.72% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2017 credit facility and 3.21% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2019 notes. all other debt obligations were primarily calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount as of december 31, 2018 . see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) purchase obligations primarily represent minimum outstanding obligations due under software license agreements. (4) other obligations primarily consist of potential future escrow agreement payments related to prior acquisitions. acquisition of cinnober for further discussion of our acquisition of cinnober, see acquisition of cinnober, of note 3, acquisitions and divestiture, to the consolidated financial statements. other commitment we have a 40.0% ownership in occ. under the occ's capital plan, the occ shareholders have committed to contribute up to $200 million in equity capital if certain capital thresholds are breached, including up to $80 million to be contributed by nasdaq. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our equity method investment in occ. offer for oslo b rs vps for further discussion of our offer for oslo b rs vps, see offer for oslo b rs vps, of note 21, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements. no n-cash contingent consideration see non-cash contingent consideration, of note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. off-balance sheet arrangements for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: note 15, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; and note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of: guarantees issued and credit facilities available; lease commitments; other guarantees; non-cash contingent consideration; escrow agreements; routing brokerage activities; acquisition of cinnober; other commitment; offer for oslo b rs vps; legal and regulatory matters; and tax audits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations which are discussed below. financial investments as of december 31, 2018 , our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly highly rated european government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2018 , the fair value of this portfolio would have declined by $4 million . debt obligations as of december 31, 2018 , substantially all of our debt obligations are fixed-rate obligations. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of the issuance of our 2019 notes, borrowings under our 2017 credit facility and 2016 credit facility, and amounts outstanding from the sale of commercial paper under our commercial paper program, all of which have variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2018 , we had principal amounts outstanding of $500 million on the 2019 notes, $100 million under the 2016 credit facility, and $276 million of commercial paper. a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on our outstanding 2019 notes, the 2016 credit facility and our outstanding commercial paper would increase annual interest expense by approximately $9 million based on borrowings as of december 31, 2018 . 49 foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 are presented in the following table: euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2018 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1800 0.1150 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 8.9 % 7.3 % 5.2 % 78.6 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 11.3 % 0.1 % (7.0 )% 95.6 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (23 ) $ (18 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (54 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (12 ) $ $ (7 ) $ $ (19 ) euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2017 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1273 0.1170 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 9.7 % 8.2 % 6.0 % 76.1 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 15.4 % 2.5 % (4.9 )% 87.0 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (24 ) $ (20 ) $ (14 ) $ $ (58 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (2 ) $ (5 ) $ $ (22 ) ____________ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. n/a not applicable. * * * * * * our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries' net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries' non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2018 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,477 $ (348 ) norwegian krone 176 (18 ) canadian dollar 120 (12 ) british pound 145 (14 ) euro 89 (9 ) australian dollar 107 (11 ) ____________ (1) includes goodwill of $2,466 million and intangible assets, net of $580 million . 50 credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary, nasdaq execution services, may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services' arrangements. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services' clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services' customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the trading platform for our fixed income business to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with industrial and commercial bank of china financial services llc, or icbc. as of december 31, 2018 , we have contributed $15 million of clearing deposits to icbc in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by icbc through the fixed income clearing corporation, with icbc acting as agent. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. daily position trading limits are also enforced for such counterparties. we have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties' creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we also are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq clearing. see note 15, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. our clearinghouse holds material amounts of clearing member cash deposits which are held or invested primarily to provide security of capital while minimizing credit, market and liquidity risks. while we seek to achieve a reasonable rate of return, we are primarily concerned with preservation of capital and managing the risks associated with these deposits. as the clearinghouse may pass on interest revenues (minus costs) to the members, this could include negative or reduced yield due to market conditions. the following is a summary of the risks associated with these deposits and how these risks are mitigated. credit risk. when the clearinghouse has the ability to hold cash collateral at a central bank, the clearinghouse utilizes its access to the central bank system to minimize credit risk exposures. when funds are not held at a central bank, we seek to substantially mitigate credit risk by ensuring that investments are primarily placed in highly rated government and supranational debt instruments. liquidity risk. liquidity risk is the risk a clearinghouse may not be able to meet its payment obligations in the right currency, in the right place and the right time. to mitigate this risk, the clearinghouse monitors liquidity requirements closely and maintains funds and assets in a manner which minimizes the risk of loss or delay in the access by the clearinghouse to such funds and assets. for example, 51 holding funds with a central bank where possible or investing in highly liquid government or supranational debt instruments serves to reduce liquidity risks. interest rate risk. interest rate risk is the risk that interest rates rise causing the value of purchased securities to decline. if we were required to sell securities prior to maturity, and interest rates had risen, the sale of the securities might be made at a loss relative to the latest market price. our clearinghouse seeks to manage this risk by making short term investments of members' cash deposits. in addition, the clearinghouse investment guidelines allow for direct purchases or repurchase agreements of high quality sovereign debt (for example, european government and u.s. treasury securities), central bank certificates and supranational debt instruments with short dated maturities. security issuer risk. security issuer risk is the risk that an issuer of a security defaults on its payment when the security matures. this risk is mitigated by limiting allowable investments and collateral under reverse repurchase agreements to high quality sovereign, government agency or supranational debt instruments. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition corporate services revenues listing services revenues listing services revenues primarily include annual renewal fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, the initial listing fee is allocated to multiple performance obligations including initial and subsequent listing services and corporate solutions services (when a company qualifies to receive these services under the applicable nasdaq rule), as well as a customer's material right to renew the option to list on our exchanges. in performing this allocation, the standalone selling price of the performance obligations is based on the initial and annual listing fees and the standalone selling price of the corporate solutions services is based on its market value. all listing fees are billed upfront and the identified performance obligations are satisfied over time since the customer receives and consumes the benefit as nasdaq provides the listing service. the amount of revenue related to the corporate solutions services performance obligation is recognized ratably over a two -year period, which is based on contract terms, with the remaining revenue recognized ratably over six years which is based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. market technology revenues we enter into long-term contracts with customers to develop customized technology solutions, license the right to use software and provide support and other services to our customers which results in these contracts containing multiple performance obligations. we allocate the contract transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. in instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the standalone selling price predominately through an expected cost plus a margin approach. we generally recognize revenue over time as our customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by our performance because our customer controls the asset for which we are creating, our performance does not create an asset with alternative use, and we have a right to payment for performance completed to date. for these services, we recognize revenue over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligation. incurred costs represent work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. accounting for our long-term contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks and their impact on the estimate of revenues and costs. our estimates are impacted by factors such as the potential for schedule and technical issues, productivity, and the complexity of work performed. when adjustments in estimated total contract costs are required, any changes in the estimated revenues from prior estimates are recognized in the current period for the effect of such change. if estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenues, a provision for the entire estimated loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. for further discussion related to recognition of these fees, see revenue from contracts with customers - listing services, and revenue from contracts with customers - market technology, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of 52 each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our five reporting units are the market services segment, the two businesses comprising the corporate services segment: corporate solutions and listing services, the information services segment, and the market technology segment. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date. when testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as the basis to determine if it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. in performing a qualitative assessment, we consider the extent to which unfavorable events or circumstances identified, such as changes in economic conditions, industry and market conditions or company specific events, could affect the comparison of the reporting unit's fair value with its carrying amount. if we choose not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit, or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a quantitative test is required. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for a reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over its carrying amount at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments. the quantitative goodwill impairment test consists of two steps performed at the reporting unit level. the first step compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the reporting unit's estimated fair value exceeds its estimated carrying amount, goodwill is not impaired. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. the following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments at the time of our 2018 annual impairment test: october 1, 2018 (in millions) market services $ 3,435 corporate services 503 information services 2,283 market technology 148 $ 6,369 in 2018, we performed a qualitative goodwill impairment test for all reporting units, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts at the time of the quantitative test in 2017 were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we evaluated the performance of each of these reporting units since the last quantitative test, as well as future financial projections to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in fasb asc topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a predominance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. no goodwill impairment was recorded in 2018, 2017 and 2016. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management's judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecasts of cash flows or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, primarily exchange and clearing registrations, are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we 53 test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date and may first perform a qualitative assessment, considering similar factors as discussed above in the goodwill impairment discussion, to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we elect to perform or are required to perform a quantitative assessment, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount as of the impairment testing date. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses and the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. during our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2018, we performed a qualitative test as the excess fair value of each individual indefinite-lived intangible asset over its respective carrying amount at the time of the quantitative test in 2017 was significant. based on the results of the qualitative assessment, we concluded based on a predominance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our indefinite-lived intangible assets are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2018 and 2017. subsequent to our annual indefinite-lived impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. in 2016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $578 million to write off the full value of a trade name from an acquired business due to a continued decline in the operating performance of the business during 2016 and a rebranding of our fixed income business under a single brand called nasdaq fixed income. this charge is recorded in asset impairment charge in the consolidated statements of income for 2016. there were no other impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets for the year ended december 31, 2016. other long-lived assets and related impairment we review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments and equity securities, as well as property and equipment for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. fair value of finite-lived intangible assets and property and equipment is based on various valuation techniques. we evaluate our equity method investments and equity securities for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. in 2016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $7 million to write off the full value of an equity method investment since the fair value of the investment was less than the carrying value and management considered the decline in value to be other-than-temporary. this charge is partially offset by a gain resulting from the sale of a percentage of a separate equity method investment and is recorded in net income from unconsolidated investees in the consolidated statements of income for 2016. no other impairments of equity method investments or equity securities were recorded in 2018, 2017 or 2016. we recorded pre-tax, non-cash property and equipment asset impairment charges of $9 million in 2017 and $8 million in 2016. the impairment charge in 2017 primarily related to the write-off of capitalized software and hardware equipment associated with our 2017 and 2016 acquisitions and is included in merger and strategic initiatives expense in the consolidated statements of income for 2017. the asset impairment charge in 2016 primarily related to fixed assets and capitalized software that were retired and is included in restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income for 2016. there were no other impairments of property and equipment recorded in 2018, 2017 or 2016. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. 54 in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. the tax cuts and jobs act was enacted on december 22, 2017. this act contained several key provisions, including a reduction of the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. it also imposed a transition tax on unremitted aggregate accumulated earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries, which did not impact us and the act also created a new requirement to provide u.s. tax on foreign earnings, global intangible low-taxed income, or gilti, which was immaterial for 2018. in december 2017, the sec staff issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118, income tax accounting implications of the tax cuts and jobs act, or sab 118, which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. during the fourth quarter of 2018, we finalized the effects of the new legislation. for further discussion of the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act on our financial statements, see tax cuts and jobs act, of note 17, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. recent accounting pronouncements see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 13 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. * * * * * * nasdaq intends to use its website, ir.nasdaq.com, as a means for disclosing material non-public information and for complying with sec regulation fd and other disclosure obligations. iii forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as may, will, could, should, anticipates, envisions, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance, and other future developments are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our strategic direction; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures or other transactional activities; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including transactional activities and other strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives; our products, order backlog and services; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity and capital; and any litigation, or any regulatory or government investigation or action, to which we are or could become a party or which may affect us. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or divest sold businesses or assets, including the fact that any integration or transition may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and we may be unable to realize synergies from business combinations, acquisitions, divestitures or other transactional activities; loss of significant trading and clearing volumes or values, fees, market share, listed companies, market data customers or other customers; our ability to develop and grow our non-trading businesses, including our technology and analytics offerings; our ability to keep up with rapid technological advances and adequately address cybersecurity risks; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; the performance and reliability of our technology and technology of third parties on which we rely; any significant error in our operational processes; our ability to continue to generate cash and manage our indebtedness; and adverse changes that may occur in the litigation or regulatory areas, or in the securities markets generally, or increased regulatory oversight domestically or internationally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are discussed under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 part i item 1. business overview nasdaq is a global technology company serving the capital markets and other industries. our diverse offerings of data, analytics, software and services enables clients to optimize and execute their business vision with confidence. we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, corporate services, information services and market technology. history nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. in february 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. in connection with this acquisition, we changed our corporate name to the nasdaq omx group, inc. we operated under this name until we rebranded our business as nasdaq, inc. in 2015. the chart below shows our historical evolution from 1971 through the present. growth strategy since our transformative combination with omx ab in 2008, we have grown our business both organically and through acquisitions that have expanded our operations globally and increasingly diversified our product and service offerings. this evolution was driven by our ability to create opportunities in areas adjacent to our core businesses, many of which are non-transaction based and rooted in innovative technology. to keep pace with our understanding of future trends and to ensure our continued success in the evolving business environment, we have focused on refining our vision, mission and strategy: our vision : we reimagine markets to realize the potential of tomorrow. our mission : we bring together ingenuity, integrity and insights to deliver markets that accelerate economic progress and empower people to achieve their greatest ambitions. our strategy : our strategic direction is driven by our continuous examination of: (i) key macroeconomic, regulatory and technology trends, (ii) consultation with our clients about short- and long-term trends in their businesses and (iii) the competitive landscape. under the strategic direction that we have been implementing over the past three years, we have focused on maximizing the resources, people and capital allocated to our largest growth opportunities, particularly in our market technology and information services segments. in addition, we are committed to maintaining and enhancing the marketplace platform businesses that are core to nasdaq, and reducing capital and resources in areas that we believe are not as strategic to our clients and have less growth potential within nasdaq. increasing investment in businesses where we see the highest growth opportunity . we have increased investment in areas that we believe help solve our clients' biggest challenges and are likely to generate growth for our stockholders. these areas include: the data analytics business within our information services segment; npm, within our corporate services segment; and our market technology segment (including our regulatory technology business). consistent with this objective, in 2019 we acquired cinnober financial technology ab, or cinnober, which is now part of our market technology segment. we also are continuing to invest in the market technology segment through the nff and the expansion and enhancement of our nasdaq trade surveillance offering, including the incorporation of machine intelligence capabilities. sustaining our foundation. as we strive to grow our business, we also have focused on enhancing our leadership position in the marketplaces in which we operate as we continue to innovate with new functionality and strong market share in our core markets. for example, we expect the migration of nasdaq bx options to a new trading platform that leverages the nff to be completed during the third quarter of this year. this updated technology will drive commonality across our internal derivatives markets. optimizing slower growth businesses . we continually review areas that are not critical to our core. in these areas, we expect to continue to target resiliency and efficiency versus growth, and free up resources when possible to redirect toward greater opportunities. we completed several divestitures in 2019. in march 2019, we completed 2 the sale of our bwise enterprise governance, risk and compliance software platform. in october 2019, we completed the divestiture of the nordic fund market, an electronic mutual fund service that was a smaller unit of our broker services business, in november 2019, we sold the core assets of our nfx business and in january 2020, management commenced an orderly wind-down of our broker services operations business. products and services we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: market services, corporate services, information services and market technology. market services our market services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, ficc and trade management services businesses. equity derivative trading and clearing we operate six electronic options exchanges in the u.s.: nasdaq phlx, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq bx options, nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx. these exchanges facilitate the trading of equity, etf, index and foreign currency options. together, our combined options market share in 2019 represented the largest share of the u.s. market for multiply-listed options on equities and etfs. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in europe, nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures and index options and futures. nasdaq clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the ccp. nasdaq clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. cash equity trading in the u.s., we operate three cash equity exchanges: the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq bx and nasdaq psx. our u.s. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, atss and registered securities exchanges. in canada, we operate an exchange with three independent markets, nasdaq canada cxc, nasdaq canada cx2 and nasdaq canada cxd, for the trading of canadian-listed securities. in europe, nasdaq operates exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and reykjavik (iceland). we also operate exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). collectively, the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges offer trading in cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic data products. settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. in addition, nasdaq owns two central securities depositories that provide notary, settlement, central maintenance and other services in the baltic countries and iceland. ficc our ficc business includes the nasdaq fixed income business and nasdaq commodities. the u.s. portion of nasdaq fixed income includes an electronic platform for trading u.s. treasuries. the electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark u.s. treasury securities. through this business, we provide trading access to the u.s. treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. the european portion of nasdaq fixed income provides a wide range of products and services, such as trading and clearing, for fixed income products in sweden, denmark, finland, iceland, lithuania and latvia. nasdaq is the largest bond listing venue in the nordics, with more than 6,500 listed retail and institutional bonds. in addition, nasdaq nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to nasdaq clearing for ccp clearing. nasdaq clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. nasdaq commodities is the brand name for nasdaq's european commodity-related products and services. nasdaq commodities' offerings include derivatives in power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, seafood, electricity certificates and clearing services. these products are listed on nasdaq oslo asa, except for seafood, which is listed on fishpool, a third party platform. nasdaq oslo asa, which is authorized by the norwegian ministry of finance and supervised by the norwegian financial supervisory authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for european products. all trades with nasdaq oslo asa are subject to clearing with nasdaq clearing, which is a ccp authorized under emir by the sfsa to conduct clearing operations. trade management services we provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting and connectivity to various data feeds. we also offer the nasdaq 3 workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. in addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide colocation services to market participants, whereby we offer firms cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data centers. additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. our broker services operations business primarily offers technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. such services and solutions primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to efficiently manage safekeeping, settlement and corporate actions and reporting, and include connectivity to exchanges and central securities depositories. in january 2020, we commenced an orderly wind-down of this broker services operations business. we expect this wind-down to continue through the second quarter of 2021. corporate services our corporate services segment includes our listing services and corporate solutions businesses. these businesses deliver critical capital market and governance solutions across the lifecycle of public and private companies. listing services we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2019, a total of 3,140 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,420 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 870 on the nasdaq global market and 850 on the nasdaq capital market. we seek new listings, including from companies conducting ipos as well as companies looking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2019, the nasdaq stock market attracted 313 new listings, including 188 ipos, representing 78% of u.s. ipos in 2019. the new listings were comprised of the following: switches from the new york stock exchange llc, or nyse, nyse american llc, or nyse american, or iex 16 ipos 188 upgrades from otc 31 etps and other listings 78 total 313 during 2019, we had 16 new listings resulting from new companies switching their listings from nyse, nyse american or iex to join nasdaq, and combined with companies that transferred additional securities to nasdaq during 2019, an aggregate of $230 billion in global equity market capitalization switched to nasdaq. our new u.s. corporate bond listing offering won 11 new issues and 37 existing bonds that transferred from nyse. notable switches in 2019 included exelon corporation, viacomcbs inc., and noble energy inc. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2019, a total of 1,040 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. our european listing customers include companies, funds and governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etps, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2019, a total of 53 new companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq first north. in addition, 10 companies upgraded their listings from nasdaq first north to the nordic and baltic exchanges. our listing services business also includes npm, which provides liquidity solutions for private companies and private funds. npm's platform helps employees, investors, companies, funds and institutions execute transactions, whether for private companies, private investment funds, or other private asset classes. in 2019, npm announced an agreement with a secondary fund advisor to provide enhanced execution capabilities for general partner, or gp, sponsored secondary transactions using our platform. we believe that the combined offering can bring greater standardization and efficiency to this market while appealing to the broader ecosystem of gps, limited partners and secondary investors. we are continuing to grow our recently launched u.s. corporate bond exchange for the listing and trading of corporate bonds. this exchange operates pursuant to the nasdaq stock market exchange license and is powered by the nff. surveillance is conducted by the nasdaq regulatory team, assisted by our nasdaq trade surveillance solution. as of december 31, 2019, 58 corporate bonds traded on the corporate bond exchange. corporate solutions our corporate solutions business serves both public and private companies and organizations. our public company clients can be companies listed on our exchanges or other u.s. and global exchanges. we help organizations enhance their ability to 4 understand and expand their global shareholder base, and improve corporate governance through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. as of december 31, 2019, we provided corporate solutions products and services in the following key areas: investor relations intelligence . we offer a global team of consultative experts that deliver advisory services including strategic capital intelligence, shareholder identification and perception studies as well as an industry-leading platform, nasdaq ir insight , to investor relations professionals. these solutions allow investor relations officers to better manage their investor relations programs, understand their investor base, target new investors, manage meetings and consume key data elements such as equity research, consensus estimates and news. governance solutions. we provide a global technology offering that streamlines the meeting process for board of directors and executive leadership teams and helps them accelerate decision making and strengthen governance. our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. in october 2019, nasdaq acquired the center for board excellence, or cbe, a provider of corporate governance and compliance solutions for boards of directors, ceos, corporate secretaries and general counsels. information services our information services business provides the global investing community with access to the financial markets together with strong investment insights. our information services segment is organized into the following businesses: market data; index; and investment data &amp; analytics. for both institutional and retail investors, our market and alternative data enhances transparency and access to the markets we operate, and we help guide investment decisions around the globe through our proprietary indexes and investment data and analytics. market data our market data business sells and distributes historical and real-time market data to the sell-side, the buy-side, retail online brokers, proprietary trading shops, other venues, internet portals and data distributors. our market data products enhance transparency of market activity within our exchanges and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors globally. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to our customers who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain access to our market depth, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every displayed price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq bx, nasdaq psx, nasdaq fixed income and other nordic markets. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including nasdaq basic, a low cost alternative to the industry level 1 feed and nasdaq canada basic, a low cost alternative to other high priced data feeds. we also provide various other data, including data relating to our six u.s. options exchanges, nordic and u.s. futures, nordic commodities, and u.s. treasuries. our market data business also includes revenues from u.s. tape plans. the plan administrators sell quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities, whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs, the plan administrators distribute the tape revenues to the respective plan participants based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, also offer data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. much like the u.s. products, european data products and services are based on trading information from the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges, as well as nasdaq commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. significant european data products include nordic equity totalview, nordic derivative totalview, and nordic fixed income totalview, level 2 and analytics. index our index business develops and licenses nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives, and financial products and also provides custom calculation services for third-party clients. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on 5 futures on our indexes. as of december 31, 2019, 332 etps listed in 20 countries and on 24 different exchanges tracked a nasdaq index and accounted for $233 billion in aum. this includes approximately $100 billion in etp aum that tracked our smart beta indexes during this same time period, which accounted for approximately 43% of the total etp aum tracking nasdaq's indexes. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. we provide index data products based on nasdaq indexes. index data products include our global index data service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and global index watch/global index file delivery service, which delivers daily as well as historical weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data for our more than 30,000 indexes that we operate. nasdaq dorsey wright, or ndw, provides passive indexing and smart beta strategies to support the financial advisor community, as well as systematic relative strength strategies to manage separately and unified managed accounts. ndw strengthens nasdaq's position as a leading smart beta index provider in the u.s. investment data &amp; analytics our investment data &amp; analytics business provides asset managers, investment consultants and asset owners with information and analytics to facilitate better investment decisions. through evestment, we provide a flexible suite of cloud-based solutions to help the institutional investing community identify and capitalize on global investment trends and to select and monitor investment managers. evestment's products also enable asset managers to market their funds worldwide. nasdaq fund network and quandl are additional components in our suite of investment data and analytics offerings. nasdaq fund network gathers and distributes daily net asset values from approximately 35,000 funds and other investment vehicles across north america. we have extended nasdaq fund network to support the distribution of collective investment trusts, hedge funds, managed accounts, separate accounts and demand deposit accounts. quandl strengthens our position as a leading source for financial, economic, and alternative datasets. for hedge funds, investment banks and other asset managers, we provide predictive insights to inform investment decisions from discovered data. market technology powering over 100 market infrastructure operators in more than 50 countries, our market technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers, buy-side firms and corporate businesses. our solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including but not limited to cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and digital currencies. our solutions can also be used in the creation of new asset classes, and non-capital markets customers, including those in insurance liabilities securitization and digital advertising futures trading. nasdaq's market technology is utilized by leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia as well as emerging markets in the middle east, latin america, and africa. additionally, more than 160 market participants leverage our surveillance technology globally to manage their integrity obligations and assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. in january 2019, we bolstered our market technology business by acquiring cinnober, a major swedish financial technology provider to brokers, exchanges and clearinghouses worldwide that provides technology solutions similar and complimentary to our market technology business. this acquisition strengthened our position as a leading market infrastructure technology provider. market infrastructure operators (mio) &amp; new markets portfolio for mios, we provide and deliver mission-critical solutions across the trade lifecycle via the nff, which is our flexible and modular architecture and technology that provides next generation capital markets capabilities in an open and agile environment. the nff is designed to cover all aspects of a market operator's needs, from trading and clearing to risk management, market surveillance, index development, data, management, testing, and quality assurance. during 2019, we continued to invest in the nff by enabling emerging technologies, including integrating technology for issuance and settlement of securities, cloud-enabled trading and clearing, and machine learning applications. our new markets initiative is focused on extending the nff's capabilities and our expertise as a market operator outside of capital markets. market technology currently offers its services to several digital assets exchanges, a commercial real estate market, the reinsurance market, an airline derivatives market, and several sports wagering operators. many mio and new markets projects involve complex delivery management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects that involve migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in an information technology solution, as well as advisory services. buy- and sell-side portfolio we continue to expand the nff offering to the global bank and broker community. regulatory pressure across multiple jurisdictions has made outsourcing of front-office infrastructure an attractive option for sell-side organizations and, as a result, we offer trading and execution infrastructure for sis, single-dealer platforms and both multi-lateral and organized trading facilities. our execution platform business added four new banks in 2019, in addition to the two global investment banks that have been working with us since 2017. 6 we also continue to gain market share for our nasdaq trade surveillance solution, which is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. in addition, our products include nasdaq risk, which is a suite of products that offer a real-time, multi-tiered risk solution that integrates pre-, at- and on-trade risk management, including margining. technology technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. we have established a technology risk program to evaluate the resiliency of critical systems, including risks associated with cybersecurity. this program is focused on (i) identifying areas for improvement in systems and (ii) implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. we have continued our focus on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. see item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion. core technology. the nff is nasdaq's approach to delivering end-to-end solutions for market infrastructure operators, buy-side firms, sell-side firms and other non-financial markets. the framework consists of a single operational core platform that ties together nasdaq's portfolio of functionality across the trade lifecycle, in an open framework whereby exchanges, clearinghouses, central securities depositories, and other entities can easily integrate nasdaq's business applications with each other, as well as other third-party solutions. in addition to being able to integrate a broad range of business functions, the nff enables end users to leverage recent technology developments. competitive strengths we are a global technology company that in recent years, through building on capital markets experience, technological expertise, and a clear understanding of our clients' needs, has diversified its product and service offerings. a unique value proposition we operate a diverse and resilient capital markets franchise with a marketplace core. our businesses provide capital-markets infrastructure services to industry players, allowing us to: develop efficient and reliable technologies to facilitate capital markets activity; manage the complexities and costs of business on a global scale; and provide data, tools and insights that drive sound decision making. technological strength we are living through a time where innovative technologies are transforming financial services. we have come a long way in trading since nasdaq launched the first fully electronic exchange in 1971 and we see forces accelerating that will bring major changes to the capital markets. the strength and resiliency of our technology, enhanced by our market technology business, in meeting the advancing demands of our global customer base is vital to the continued success of our business and distinguishes us from our competitors. a focus on client needs throughout the marketplace we strive to serve a diverse range of clients by: brokers and traders - helping brokers and traders to confidently plan, optimize and execute their business vision. market participants - enabling market participants to monitor and capitalize on real-time market changes. investors and asset managers - offering products and services to assist investors and asset managers in optimizing their portfolios and offerings. listed companies - promoting the capital health of our listed companies. private companies - working with private companies to meet liquidity needs, manage relationships with long-term institutional investors and oversee their entire equity program. market infrastructure players - assisting market infrastructure players (exchanges, regulators, clearinghouses, and central securities depositories) in increasing efficiency, meeting customer needs and growing revenue. capital-markets - delivering efficiencies through economies of scale (cost, speed, connectivity) to all members of the capital-markets ecosystem. competition market services we face intense competition in north america and europe in businesses that comprise our market services segment. we seek 7 to provide market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, speed of execution, high levels of customer service, and efficient pricing. in both north america and europe, our competitors include other exchange operators, operators of non-exchange trading systems and banks and brokerages that operate their own internal trading pools and platforms. in the u.s., our options markets compete with exchanges operated by cboe global markets, inc., or cboe, miami international holdings, inc., or miami, and intercontinental exchange, inc., or ice. in cash equities in the u.s., we compete with exchanges operated by cboe and ice. new exchanges in the u.s. have recently been launched or announced, including one to be established by a group of our customers. we also face competition from atss, known as dark pools, and other less-heavily regulated broker-owned trade facilitation systems, as well as from other types of otc trading. in canada, our cash equities exchange competes with exchanges such as the toronto stock exchange, or tsx, and other marketplaces. in europe, our cash equities markets compete with exchanges such as cboe, euronext n.v., deutsche b rse a.g. and london stock exchange group plc, or lse, and many mtfs such as turquoise. our competitors in the trading and clearing of options and futures on european equities include the eurex group companies, or eurex, cboe, ice futures europe and the mtfs. in addition, in equities in europe we face competition from other broker-owned systems, dark pools, sis, and other types of otc trading. competition among exchanges for trading european equity derivatives tends to occur where there is competition in the trading of the underlying equities. in addition to exchange-based competition, we face competition from otc derivative markets. the implementation of mifid ii and mifir has resulted in further competitive pressure on our european trading business. mtfs and sis are already attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. with the regulatory environment likely to stay more favorable to alternative trading venues, we expect such venues to compete aggressively for the trading of equity securities listed on our nordic exchanges. different bilateral trading systems pursuing block business also remain active in europe. as part of this, trading on sis has increased markedly as volumes migrate from more transparent types of trading venues. our ficc business also operates in an intensely competitive environment. our trading platform for benchmark u.s. treasuries faces competition from both long-established competitors, such as cme group inc. (which recently acquired brokertec) and newly emerging electronic and voice brokerages, and the operating environment remains extremely challenging. our european fixed income and commodities products and services are subject to relentless competitive pressure from european exchanges and clearinghouses. our trade management services business competes with other exchange operators, extranet providers, and data center providers. corporate services our listing services business in both the u.s. and europe provides a means of facilitating capital formation through public capital markets. there are competing ways of raising capital, and we seek to demonstrate the benefits of listing shares on an exchange. our primary competitor for larger company stock share listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market competes with local and international markets located outside the u.s. for listings of equity securities of both u.s. and non-u.s. companies that choose to list (or dual-list) outside of their home country. for example, the nasdaq stock market competes for listings with exchanges in europe and asia, such as lse and the stock exchange of hong kong limited. the listings services business in europe is characterized by a large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges, which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. for those considering an alternative, competing european exchanges that frequently attract many listings from outside their respective home countries include lse, euronext n.v. and deutsche b rse a.g. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies seeking capital or liquidity from public capital markets are able to raise capital without a regulated market listing and can consider trading their shares on smaller markets and quoting facilities. in our corporate solutions business, competition is varied and can be fragmented. for our investor relations intelligence business, there are many regional competitors and relatively few global providers. other exchange operators are partnering with firms that have capabilities in this area and seeking to acquire relevant assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside listing services. the competitive landscape for our governance solutions business varies by customer sector and geography. most participants offer saas solutions that are supported by a data center strategy. some firms offer specialized services that focus on a single niche sector. the larger players often offer additional services. customers frequently seek single-source providers that are able to address a broad range of needs within a single platform. information services our market data business in the u.s. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange's systems. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. in europe, all data products are proprietary, as there is no official data consolidator. competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors to 8 provide information to market participants. examples of our competitors in proprietary data products are ice, cboe, tsx, and dow jones &amp; company. the consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on securities listed on other markets. our index business faces competition from providers of various competing financial indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers. our investment data &amp; analytics business faces competition from a broad array of data and analytics suppliers, both established firms and small start-ups. our primary competitors are morningstar, factset, mercer and any number of smaller firms along with start-up data providers and aggregators. additionally, other large providers to the financial services industry, such as bloomberg and refinitiv, are believed to be interested in pursuing certain aspects of the services we provide. market technology traditionally, exchanges and exchange-related businesses internally developed technology, sometimes aided by consultants. however, over time this model has changed as many operators have recognized the cost-savings made possible by buying technology from third parties. as a result, two types of competitors have emerged in our market technology segment: exchange operators and technology providers unaffiliated with exchanges. these organizations make available a range of off-the-shelf technology, including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination, and offer customization and operation expertise. market conditions in market technology are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment and innovation a necessity. a wide range of providers compete with us in surveillance. in surveillance, standardization of products and budget pressures drive customers to focus on pricing. intellectual property we believe that our intellectual property assets are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively create and maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets, including patents and patent applications related to our innovations, products and services; trademarks related to our brands, products and services; copyrights in software and creative content; trade secrets; and through other intellectual property rights, licenses of various kinds and contractual provisions. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and utilize non-disclosure agreements with third parties with whom we conduct business in order to secure and protect our proprietary rights and to limit access to, and disclosure of, our proprietary information. we own, or have licensed, rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the u.s. and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark that we actively seek to protect in the u.s. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s. and in many other jurisdictions across the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of our products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. no single patent is in itself core to the operations of nasdaq or any of its principal business areas. corporate venture practice we operate a corporate venture program to make minority investments primarily in emerging growth financial technology companies that are strategically relevant to, and aligned with, nasdaq. investments are made through the venture program to further our organic research and development efforts and accelerate the path to commercial viability. we expect that capital invested will continue to be modest and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, existing capital return or deployment priorities. since its inception in 2017, our venture program has grown, with aggregate initial and follow-on investments of approximately $42 million in ten companies in various sectors, including data and analytics, digital assets, market infrastructure, machine intelligence and regulatory technology. environmental, social and governance matters nasdaq is committed to long-term environmental, social and governance, or esg, advocacy, oversight, and philanthropy to engage with stakeholders at all levels. during 2019, we broadened our corporate and community esg efforts, including expanding esg oversight of our own operations and furthering our commitment to greater sustainability. we also expanded our esg services and solutions with new offerings for our clients, including our nasdaq sustainable bond network, which provides access to detailed information on sustainable, green and social bonds and allows investors to obtain detailed information on sustainable bonds for product due diligence, selection and monitoring. for more information regarding our esg efforts, both internally and externally, please see our proxy statement. 9 regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., canada and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. sros conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation's securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the sec. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiaries. national securities exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder, as well as each sro's own rules, impose many regulatory and operational responsibilities on sros, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. moreover, an sro is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the exchange act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the sro, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq currently operates three cash equity, six options markets and one corporate bond market in the u.s. we operate the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market and the corporate bond market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market's sro license; nasdaq bx and nasdaq bx options pursuant to nasdaq bx's sro license; nasdaq psx and nasdaq phlx pursuant to nasdaq phlx's sro license; and nasdaq ise, nasdaq gemx and nasdaq mrx, each of which operates an options market under its own sro license. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of our exchanges are subject to the rules of those exchanges. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to sec enforcement proceedings. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros' rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. sec approval requires a finding by the sec that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the exchange act and the rules and regulations thereunder. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file with the sec, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. nasdaq conducts real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, rulemaking and membership functions through our nasdaq regulation department. we review suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff, and depending on the nature of the activity, may refer the activity to finra for further investigation. pursuant to regulatory services agreements between finra and our sros, finra provides certain regulatory services to our markets, including some regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by finra, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which finra does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. in addition to its other sro responsibilities, the nasdaq stock market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company's compliance with the nasdaq stock market's financial and corporate governance standards. our listing qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on the nasdaq stock market to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. once securities are listed, the listing qualifications department monitors each issuer's on-going compliance with the nasdaq stock market's continued listing standards. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and various state securities regulators. nasdaq operates five broker-dealers: nasdaq execution services, llc, execution access, llc, npm securities, smtx, llc, and nasdaq capital markets advisory llc. each broker-dealer is registered with the sec, a member of finra and registered in the u.s. states and territories required by the operation of its business. nasdaq execution services operates as our routing broker for sending orders from nasdaq's u.s. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. smtx acts as an intermediary to facilitate closings of, and introduce prospective accredited investors in connection with, private non-capital raising transactions. nasdaq capital markets advisory acts as 10 a third-party advisor to privately-held or publicly-traded companies during ipos and various other offerings. two of our broker-dealers also are registered with the sec as an ats. execution access operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including as nasdaq fixed income's registered ats for u.s. treasury securities. npm securities operates an ats that facilitates the purchase and sale of ownership interests in primary and secondary transactions in certain funds (both registered or not registered under the investment company act of 1940), business development companies, certain closed end funds and private real estate investment funds. the sec, finra and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer's designated examining authority. the designated examining authority is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec's financial responsibility rules. finra is the current designated examining authority for each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. our registered broker-dealers are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. as of december 31, 2019, each of our broker-dealers were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra . our sros have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, we have reduced the scope of services provided by finra under these regulatory services agreements and are performing certain of those regulatory functions directly. in addition, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of common members of our sros and finra; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. in addition, regulation nms requires that every national securities exchange on which an nms stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in nms stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual nms stock through a single plan processor. the utp plan was filed with and approved by the sec as a national market system plan in accordance with the exchange act and regulation nms to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market serves as the processor for the utp plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in october 2015. the nasdaq stock market also serves as the administrator for the utp plan. to fulfill its obligations as the processor, the nasdaq stock market has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the utp plan. as the administrator, the nasdaq stock market manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members in accordance with the terms of the utp plan and of regulation nms. regulation sci. regulation sci is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the u.s. securities markets. regulation sci applies to national securities exchanges, operators of certain atss, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. we implemented an inter-disciplinary 11 program to ensure compliance with regulation sci. regulation sci policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was developed to ensure compliance. regulation of registered investment advisor subsidiary. our subsidiary ndw is an investment advisor registered with the sec under the investment advisors act of 1940. in this capacity, ndw is subject to oversight and inspections by the sec. among other things, registered investment advisors like ndw must comply with certain disclosure obligations, advertising and fee restrictions and requirements relating to client suitability and custody of funds and securities. registered investment advisors are also subject to anti-fraud provisions under both federal and state law. cftc regulation. we also operate nfx, a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the u.s. as a designated contract market, nfx is required to comply with 23 core principles as set forth in section 5(d) of the commodity exchange act and with part 38 of the cftc's regulations. nfx is also subject to the requirements of part 40 of the cftc's regulations with respect to the adoption of new rules or rule amendments and the listing of new products. in november 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell the core assets of our nfx platform to a third-party. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the u.s. and their customers. canadian regulation regulation of nasdaq canada is performed by the canadian securities administrators, an umbrella organization of canada's provincial and territorial securities regulators. as a recognized exchange in ontario, nasdaq canada must comply with the terms and conditions of its exchange recognition order. while exempt from exchange recognition in each jurisdiction in canada other than ontario where nasdaq canada carries on business, nasdaq must comply with the terms and conditions of an exemption order granted by the other jurisdictions. oversight of the exchange is performed by nasdaq canada's lead regulator, the ontario securities commission. additionally, nasdaq fixed income provides access to canadian-based permitted clients for trading non-canadian fixed income securities and is subject to canadian securities regulations in connection with providing these services. nasdaq canada is subject to several national marketplace related instruments which set out requirements for marketplace operations, trading rules and managing electronic trading risk. exchange terms and conditions include but are not limited to, requirements for, governance, regulation, rules and rulemaking, fair access, conflict management and financial viability. european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and the european economic area focuses on matters relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and settlement of securities and commodities as well as issues related to market abuse. in july 2016, the european union's market abuse regulation, which is intended to prevent market abuse, entered into force. mifid ii and mifir entered into force in january 2018 and primarily affect our european trading businesses. many of the provisions of mifid ii and mifir are implemented through technical standards drafted by the european securities and markets authority and approved by the european commission. in addition, in 2016, the european union adopted legislation on governance and control of the production and use of benchmark indexes. the benchmark regulation applies in the european union from early 2018. however, due to transitional clauses in the benchmark regulation, nasdaq as a benchmark provider, did not need to be in compliance with the benchmark regulation until january 1, 2020 in relation to benchmarks provided by nasdaq's european subsidiaries, or until january 1, 2022, in relation to benchmarks provided by non-european nasdaq entities. as the regulatory environment continues to evolve and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue developing our products and services to ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer fair and efficient trading. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. as a result, we have a strong local presence in each jurisdiction in which we operate regulated businesses. the regulated entities have decision-making power and can adopt policies and procedures and retain resources to manage all operations subject to their license. in sweden, general supervision of the nasdaq stockholm exchange is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq clearing's role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is supervised by the sfsa and overseen by the swedish central bank (riksbanken). additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by the nasdaq stockholm exchange, through its surveillance function. nasdaq stockholm's exchange activities are regulated primarily by the ssma, which implements mifid ii into swedish law and which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange's articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. nasdaq clearing holds the license as a ccp under emir. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free 12 access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange's rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners' interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa's supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange's obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been cooperation between the supervisory authorities in sweden, iceland, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. in 2019, the supervisory authority in norway joined this cooperation. we operate a licensed exchange, nasdaq oslo asa, in norway that trades and lists commodity derivatives. although norway is not a member of the eu, as a result of the european economic area, or eea, agreement (agreement on the eea entered into between the eu and european free trade association) the regulatory environment is broadly similar to what applies in eu member states. in addition, in january 2019 new legislation entered into force in norway mirroring the provisions of mifid ii and mifir. as a result, the regulatory environment in norway is similar to sweden. the norwegian fsa supervises the norwegian exchange on an autonomous basis and the norwegian exchange has a separate market surveillance function overseen by the norwegian fsa. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is conceptually organized into two functions: one for the review and admission of listing applications and surveillance activities related to issuers (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at nasdaq oslo and each of the three baltic exchanges. in finland and sweden, decisions to list new companies on the main market are made by listing committees that have external members in addition to members from each respective exchange and in the other countries the decision is made by the respective president of the exchange. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is handled by the respective surveillance department. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in denmark, finland, iceland and sweden. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country. in the united kingdom, the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq oslo asa are each subject to regulation by the financial conduct authority as recognised overseas investment exchanges. nasdaq clearing is registered as a recognized third country ccp with the bank of england under the temporary recognition regime. the registration will come into effect on december 31, 2020, at the end of the brexit implementation period and last for three years. we will be applying for permanent recognition within six months of the end of this implementation period. employees as of december 31, 2019, nasdaq had 4,361 employees. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is http://ir.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq's website and click on financials then click on sec filings. item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. 13 risks related to our business and industry economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, market volatility, changes in investment patterns and priorities, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. to the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken and result in slower growth or recessions, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a reduction in the demand for our products and services, including our market technology, data, indexes and corporate solutions, a decline in trading volumes or values and deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies. trading volumes and values are driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volumes or values may affect our market share and impact our pricing. in addition, our market services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges, or reduce the number of issuers launching ipos. information services revenues may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies or if our customers consolidate, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue or expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a smaller number of customers. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market and in etp aum tracking nasdaq indexes. there may be less demand for our corporate solutions or market technology products if global economic conditions are weak. our customers historically cut back on purchases of new services and technology when growth rates decline, thereby reducing our opportunities to sell new products and services or upgrade existing products and services. a reduction in trading volumes or values, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for information services, market technology or corporate services products and services due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the industries we operate in are highly competitive. we face significant competition in our market technology, information services and corporate services businesses from other market participants. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. this competition includes both product and price competition. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have also merged to achieve greater economies of scale and scope. regulatory changes also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the european union that compete with our european markets. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. in addition, competitors recently have launched, or announced a plan to launch, new exchanges in the u.s., including an exchange established by a group of our customers. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may leverage data more effectively or enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. we face intense price competition in all areas of our business. in particular, the trading industry is characterized by price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors and new entrants, which could adversely impact operating results. we also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in addition, pricing in our corporate services, indexes and market technology businesses is subject to competitive pressures. if we are unable to compete successfully in the industries in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. if new systems fail to operate as intended or our existing 14 systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in service outages, lower trading volumes or values, financial losses, decreased customer satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets and the markets that rely on our technology have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any volume increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position. we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. we may spend substantial time and money developing new products, initiatives and enhancements to existing products. if these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms, the rollout of our platforms and the adoption of new technologies. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms or technologies will justify the related investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms or the adoption of new technologies, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. additionally, it is also possible that we may allocate significant amounts of cash and other resources to product technologies or business models for which market demand is lower than anticipated. in addition, the introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. a decline in trading and clearing volumes or values or market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes and values are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes and values across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes or values. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume or value of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes or values would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes or values through pricing changes. declines in trading and clearing volumes or values may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if our total market share in securities decreases relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities, or new sec rules and regulations, could lower the nasdaq stock market's share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyberattack. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches. some of these threats include attacks from foreign governments, hacktivists, insiders and criminal organizations. foreign governments may seek to obtain a foothold in u.s. critical infrastructure, hacktivists may seek to deploy denial of service attacks to bring attention to their cause, insiders may pose a risk by human error or malicious activity and criminal organizations may seek to profit from stolen data. computer viruses and worms also continue to be a threat with ransomware increasingly being used by criminals to extort money. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. 15 while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach, collateral damage from a new virus or a non-malicious act, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volumes or values, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. any system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. as cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication, and as the domestic and international regulatory and compliance structure related to information security, data privacy and data usage becomes increasingly complex and exacting, we may be required to devote significant additional resources to strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities, and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results . the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our platforms to include other products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our clearinghouse operations expose us to risks, including credit or liquidity risks that may include defaults by clearing members, or insufficiencies in margins or default funds. we are subject to risks relating to our operation of a clearinghouse, including counterparty and liquidity risks, risk of defaults by clearing members and risks associated with adequacy of the customer margin and of default funds. our clearinghouse operations expose us to counterparties with differing risk profiles. we may be adversely impacted by the financial distress or failure of a clearing member, which may cause us negative financial impact, reputational harm or regulatory consequences, including litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. in september 2018, a member of the nasdaq clearing commodities market defaulted due to an inability to post sufficient collateral to cover increased margin requirements for the positions of the relevant member. for further discussion of the default, see note 16, clearing operations. there are no assurances that similar defaults will not occur again, which could result in substantial expenses. to the extent that our regulatory capital and risk management policies are not adequate to manage future financial and operational risks in our clearinghouse, we may experience adverse consequences to our operating results or ability to conduct our business. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and proactively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, execution access, has a clearing arrangement with the industrial and commercial bank of china financial services llc, or icbc. as of december 31, 2019, we have contributed $15 million of clearing deposits to icbc in connection with this clearing arrangement. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by icbc through the fixed income clearing corporation. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty 16 risk. daily position trading limits are also enforced for such counterparties. although we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies, no guarantee can be provided that these arrangements will at all times be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. nasdaq, as technology provider to the utp operating committee, has implemented measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. nasdaq transferred the processor technology platform to our inet platform and this migration further enhanced the resiliency of the processor systems. we further improved the systems' resiliency by adding the utp snapshot service. however, if despite these improvement measures, future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial condition. stagnation or decline in the listings market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for listings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. a stagnation or decline in the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges could cause a decrease in revenues for future years. furthermore, a prolonged decrease in the number of listings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. our corporate solutions business is also impacted by declines in the listings market or increases in acquisitions activity as there will be fewer publicly-traded customers that need our products. risks related to transactional activities and strategic relationships we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies' operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or customers not renewing their contracts with us as we migrate platforms; incompatibility of systems and operating methods; reliance on, or provision of, transition services; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. gaap and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. foreign acquisitions involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, our ability to enforce contracts in various jurisdictions, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. we may not be able to address these risks successfully, or at all, without incurring significant costs, delays or other operating problems that could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and strategic initiatives. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we 17 anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2019, goodwill totaled $6.4 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $2.2 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, equity securities, and property and equipment, for potential impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. we estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance and projected cash flows. considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. however, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, and there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2019, 2018 and 2017. we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. for additional discussion of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including related impairment, see goodwill and related impairment, indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment, and other long-lived assets and related impairment, of critical accounting policies and estimates, of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and valuation of other long-lived assets, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, note 6, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, note 7, investments, and note 8, property and equipment, net, to the consolidated financial statements. acquisitions, dispositions, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. we also may divest additional businesses or assets in the future. although we cannot predict our transactional activities with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions, divestments, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities will be important to our strategy. such transactions may be material in size and scope. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us. we also invest in startups through our nasdaq venture program and hold minority interests in other entities. given the size of these investments, we do not have operational control of these entities and may have limited visibility into risk management practices. thus, we may be subject to additional capital requirements in certain circumstances and financial and reputational risks if there are operational failures. we may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit rating agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance a transaction could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future transactions could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-transaction business relationships; increased operating costs; the inability to meet our target for return on invested capital; increased debt obligations, which may adversely affect our targeted debt ratios; risks to the continued achievement of our strategic direction; risks associated with divesting employees, customers or vendors when divesting businesses or assets; declines in the value of investments; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. 18 charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, integration and restructuring costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we account for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. we allocate the total estimated purchase price to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments including the following: we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; we may incur additional costs from integrating our acquisitions. the success of our acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses into our existing operations and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities; and we may incur restructuring costs in connection with the reorganization of any of our businesses. risks related to legal and regulatory matters we operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations that can be ambiguous and can change unexpectedly. we operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s., europe and canada. the securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future that can change in response to global conditions and events. our ability to comply with complex and changing regulation is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks and regulatory obligations, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers and markets for violations of applicable requirements. for example, during 2016, the sfsa and the other nordic financial supervisory authorities conducted investigations of cybersecurity processes at our nordic exchanges and clearinghouse. in december 2016, we were issued a $6 million fine by the sfsa as a result of findings in connection with its investigation. the sfsa's conclusions related to governance issues rather than systems and platform security. we have appealed this decision and the final outcome is still pending. in the future, we could be subject to regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. favorable sec rulings and interpretations can be challenged in and reversed by federal courts of appeals, reducing or eliminating the value of such prior interpretations. nfx, our futures exchange, is also regulated by the cftc and subject to a requirement to self-certify changes to these rules by filing with the cftc. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower 19 fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in 2016, the sec approved a plan for nasdaq and other exchanges to establish a cat, to improve regulators' ability to monitor trading activity. in addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a consolidated audit trail has resulted in significant additional expenditures, including to implement the new technology to meet any plan's requirements. creating cat has required the development and implementation of complex and costly technology. this development effort has been funded by the sros (including nasdaq) in exchange for promissory notes that nasdaq expects to be repaid at such time that the sec approves the assessment of fees for the funding of cat. the sec could determine not to approve the assessment of such fees in which case some or all of the promissory notes would not be repaid. in addition, the ongoing failure to timely launch or properly operate such technology exposes nasdaq and other exchanges to sec fines. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other sros. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer's net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the sec's uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. in these countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may issue regulatory fines or may ultimately revoke our authorizations if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities' requirements. additionally, we are subject to the obligations under regulation (eu) 2016/1011, compliance with which could be costly or cause a change in our business practices. furthermore, certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to file with the sec to establish or modify the fees that we charge for our data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain data products. in october 2018, the sec determined that we had not established that a fee for one of our data products was fair and reasonable, and also directed us to establish a procedure for reviewing other challenged fees. we have appealed both sec actions to a federal appeals court. if the results of appeals, or further actions by the sec, are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges' ability to charge for data products, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of data fees could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. in canada, all new marketplace fees and changes to existing fees, including trading and data fees, must be filed with and approved by the ontario securities commission. the canadian securities administrators adopted a data fees methodology that restricts the total amount of fees that can be charged by all marketplaces to a reference benchmark. currently, all marketplaces are subject to annual reviews of their market data fees tying market data revenues to pre- and post- trade market share metrics. permitted fee ranges are based on an interim domestic benchmark that is subject to change to an international benchmark, which could lower the permitted fees charged by marketplaces, which could adversely impact our revenues. our european exchanges currently offer data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. the mifid ii/mifir rules entail that the price for regulated data such as pre- and post-trade data shall be based on cost plus a reasonable margin. however, these terms are not clearly defined. there is a risk that a different interpretation of these terms may influence the fees for european data products adversely. in addition, any future actions by european union institutions could affect our ability to offer data products in the same manner as today, thereby causing an adverse effect on our market data revenues. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulatory changes adopted by the sec or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. in recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues 20 affecting the securities markets, including market structure, technological oversight and transaction fees. the sec, finra and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. industry responses to the mifid ii and mifir rules, eu benchmark regulation or other applicable rules could affect our operations in europe. changes to the rules themselves could also affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe could have a material impact on our business. with respect to our regulated businesses, our business model can be severely impacted by policy decisions. for example, the sec has proposed an exchange transaction fee pilot program that could result in future regulatory changes and we, along with other stock exchanges, have challenged the sec's order adopting the program in a court action. similarly, the sec has proposed possible changes to the governance of securities information processors as well as regulations to modify the infrastructure for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of market data for exchange-listed national market stocks, that if approved, may or may not adversely affect our revenues. our opponents in some markets are larger and better funded and, if successful in influencing certain policies, may successfully advocate for positions that adversely impact our business. while we support regulatory efforts to review and improve the structure, resilience and integrity of the markets, these proposed regulatory changes and future reforms could impose significant costs, including litigation costs, and other obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. we are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the tax, employment, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls, foreign corrupt practices, employee labor and employment areas, including anti-discrimination and fair-pay laws and regulations. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of an sro. we perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges monitor trading and compliance with listing standards in accordance with the european union's market abuse regulation and other applicable laws. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the nasdaq nordic and nasdaq baltic exchanges are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may affect our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data, including personal data, across national borders. legal and contractual requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data continue to evolve; regulatory scrutiny and customer requirements in this area are increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently across jurisdictions and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements with privacy and other laws to which we are subject. recently effective laws such as the european union general data protection regulation, or gdpr, and the california consumer privacy act, or ccpa, can have application and effect beyond their territorial limits, and require companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition to directly applying to certain nasdaq business activities, these laws impact many of our customers, which may affect their requirements and decisions related to services that we offer. although we have implemented a program to address privacy requirements, our efforts to comply with gdpr, ccpa 21 and other privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could impact the services that we offer. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities, as well as third party litigation, related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations, future enforcement actions or investigations, or the creation of new rights to pursue damages could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which may reduce our net income, or could adversely affect our ability to continue our capital allocation program or effect strategic transactions in a tax-favorable manner. in addition, such changes may increase the cost of our offerings, which may cause our clients to reduce their use of our services. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional taxes imposed on our clients or our subsidiaries. risks related to liquidity and capital resources our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term debt and commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and corporate development activity, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting our industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our commercial paper and other outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and our senior notes fluctuates based on our credit ratings. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2019 was $3.4 billion. we may borrow additional amounts by utilizing available liquidity under our existing credit facilities or issuing short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes through our commercial paper program. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; and increase our cost of debt and reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, dispose of assets and make certain restricted payments. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies, pay dividends, repurchase our stock or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing 22 additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. risks related to intellectual property and brand reputation damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based, corporate solutions and market technology products, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our indexes business for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; any negative publicity surrounding the use of our products and/or services by our customers, including in connection with emerging asset classes such as crypto assets; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volumes or values on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, indexes, corporate solutions or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners, employees and others. however, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient, or effective, at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. however, effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services and products are offered. moreover, changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, could also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. in particular, amendments to the u.s. patent law may affect our ability to protect and defend our innovations. there is also a risk that the scope of protection under our patents may not be sufficient in some cases, or that existing patents may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third 23 parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to our operations and common stock we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. in addition, unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, pandemics, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in finance and technology; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes or values. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates and commercial paper is issued at prevailing interest rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancings. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management's expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, data storage, data content, clearing and other services. to the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes its business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. our operational processes are subject to the risk of error, which may result in financial loss or reputational damage. we have instituted extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations; however, such risk cannot completely be eliminated. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets. some of our operations require complex processes, and the introduction of new products or services or changes in processes or reporting due to regulatory requirements may result in an increased risk of errors for a period after implementation. additionally, the likelihood of such errors or vulnerabilities is heightened as we acquire new products from third parties, whether as a result of acquisitions or otherwise. data, other content or information that we distribute may contain errors or be delayed, causing reputational harm. use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us in the event of such delay or error. even with a favorable outcome, significant litigation against us might unduly burden management, personnel, financial and other resources. in addition, the sophisticated software we sell to our customers may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may be discovered only after delivery, or could fail to perform 24 its intended purpose. because our clients depend on our solutions for critical business functions, any service interruptions, failures or other issues may result in lost or delayed market acceptance and lost sales, or negative customer experiences that could damage our reputation, resulting in the loss of customers, loss of revenues and liability for damages, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business. while we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change by establishing robust environmental and sustainability programs, there are inherent climate related risks wherever our business is conducted. there is an increased focus from our investors, clients, employees, and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters. access to clean water and reliable energy in the communities where we conduct our business, whether for our offices, data centers, vendors, clients or other stakeholders, is a priority. for example, changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling our data centers or the facilities that we use to operate our exchanges and clearinghouses, develop our products or provide cloud-based services. climate related events, including extreme weather events and their impact on the critical infrastructure in the united states and elsewhere, have the potential to disrupt our business or the business of our clients, create adverse market conditions, including trading volatility beyond historical levels, and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results. uncertainty relating to the effects of the united kingdom's exit from the european union could cause uncertainty and adversely impact our business. we continue to evaluate the potential effect of the united kingdom's departure from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit) on our business operations and financial results. the withdrawal of the united kingdom from membership in the european union may cause unfavorable consequences, including a deterioration of general economic conditions, increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and the european union and increased volatility of foreign exchange rates. brexit could adversely affect political, regulatory, or trading conditions in the united kingdom and in europe and it could contribute to instability in global political institutions and regulatory agencies. brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and differing laws and regulations between the united kingdom and the european union. brexit may also have adverse tax effects on movement of products or activities between the united kingdom and the european union. currently, we do not anticipate that brexit will have a material impact on our operations or our financial results. while we have operations in the united kingdom, these operations are limited in scope and not material to our overall business. however, we may be impacted if our customers in the united kingdom are subject to additional costs or restrictions in accessing our products or services. in addition, the overall impact of brexit may create further global economic uncertainty, which may adversely impact the activities of our customers. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled professional personnel that can learn and embrace new technologies. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers or technology personnel, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, including but not limited to northern europe, the baltics, the middle east, africa and asia. therefore, our non-u.s. operations are subject to the risk inherent in the international environment. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of our non-u.s. locations could adversely affect our operations and financial results. some locations, such as lithuania, india and the philippines, may increase risk. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. unforeseen or catastrophic events could interrupt our critical business functions. in addition, our u.s. and european businesses are heavily concentrated in particular areas and may be adversely affected by events in those areas. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, pandemic, extreme weather, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, theft, sabotage and vandalism. given our position in the global capital markets, we may be more likely than other companies to be a target for malicious disruption activities. in addition, our u.s. and european business operations are heavily concentrated in the u.s. east coast, and stockholm respectively. any event that impacts either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. 25 we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans and capabilities for critical systems and business functions to mitigate the risk of an interruption. any interruption in our critical business functions or systems could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. for example, some colocation customers may lack adequate disaster recovery solutions to avoid loss of trade flow from a sustained interruption of our critical systems. because we have operations in numerous countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, the united kingdom, australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, changes in local interest rates or other factors. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations, interest expense and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we utilize widely-accepted methods to identify, assess, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq's global risk management committee, which comprises senior executives and has responsibility for regularly reviewing risks and referring significant risks to the board of directors or specific board committees. by definition, some risk management methods require subjective evaluation of dynamic information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that variable information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if we do not successfully identify, assess, monitor or manage the risks to which we are exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. our board of directors regularly declares quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq's board of directors. the board's determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and governing law restrict the ownership and voting of our common stock. in addition, such provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec's concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries include a prohibition on any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries also require the sec's approval of any business ventures with exchange members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation's board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. 26 finally, many of the european countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 32 segment operating results the following table shows our revenues by segment, transaction-based expenses for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction-based expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) market services $ 2,639 $ 2,709 $ 2,418 (2.6 )% 12.0 % transaction-based expenses (1,727 ) (1,751 ) (1,537 ) (1.4 )% 13.9 % market services revenues less transaction-based expenses 912 958 881 (4.8 )% 8.7 % corporate services 496 487 459 1.8 % 6.1 % information services 779 714 588 9.1 % 21.4 % market technology 338 270 247 25.2 % 9.3 % other revenues (1) 10 97 236 (89.7 )% (58.9 )% total revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 2,535 $ 2,526 $ 2,411 0.4 % 4.8 % ____________ (1) includes the revenues from the bwise enterprise governance, risk and compliance software platform which was sold in march 2019 and the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses which were sold in april 2018. prior to the sale dates, these revenues were included in our corporate solutions business within our corporate services segment. see 2019 divestitures, and 2018 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the following charts show our market services, corporate services, information services, and market technology segments as a percentage of our total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,535 million in 2019, $2,526 million in 2018 and $2,411 million in 2017: 33 34 market services the following table shows total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) market services revenues: equity derivative trading and clearing revenues (1) $ 816 $ 849 $ 752 (3.9 )% 12.9 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (477 ) (506 ) (450 ) (5.7 )% 12.4 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (47 ) (44 ) (43 ) 6.8 % 2.3 % equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses 292 299 259 (2.3 )% 15.4 % cash equity trading revenues (2) 1,462 1,476 1,279 (0.9 )% 15.4 % transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (847 ) (830 ) (692 ) 2.0 % 19.9 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (352 ) (361 ) (334 ) (2.5 )% 8.1 % cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses 263 285 253 (7.7 )% 12.6 % ficc revenues 70 92 96 (23.9 )% (4.2 )% transaction-based expenses: transaction rebates (3 ) (8 ) (16 ) (62.5 )% (50.0 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) (50.0 )% % ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses 66 82 78 (19.5 )% 5.1 % trade management services revenues 291 292 291 (0.3 )% 0.3 % total market services revenues less transaction-based expenses $ 912 $ 958 $ 881 (4.8 )% 8.7 % ____________ (1) includes section 31 fees of $43 million in 2019, $39 million in 2018, and $40 million in 2017. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. (2) includes section 31 fees of $337 million in 2019, $343 million in 2018, and $319 million in 2017. section 31 fees are recorded as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. equity derivative trading and clearing revenues equity derivative trading and clearing revenues and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2019 compared with 2018, reflecting in large part a significantly lower volume and volatility market environment in the u.s. as compared to 2018. the decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues in 2019 was primarily due to lower u.s. industry trading volumes and lower overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges, partially offset by a higher u.s. gross capture rate and higher section 31 pass-through fee revenue. the decrease in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2019 was primarily due to lower u.s. industry trading volumes and lower overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges, partially offset by a higher u.s. net capture rate. the decreases in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues and equity derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction-based expenses also included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million related to nasdaq's nordic exchanges. section 31 fees are recorded as equity derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. in the u.s., we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher average sec fee rates, partially offset by lower dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges. 35 transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to lower u.s. industry trading volumes, a decrease in our overall u.s. matched market share executed on nasdaq's exchanges, and a decrease in the u.s. rebate capture rate. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher section 31 pass-through fees, as discussed above. cash equity trading revenues cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 reflecting in large part the lower volume and volatility market environment in the u.s. as compared to 2018 as mentioned above in equity derivative trading and clearing revenues. the decrease in cash equity trading revenues in 2019 was primarily due to lower u.s. industry trading volumes and lower section 31 pass-through fee revenue, partially offset by a higher u.s. gross capture rate. the decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses in 2019 primarily reflects lower u.s. and european industry trading volumes and a lower u.s. net capture rate due to a particularly strong 2018 period, partially offset by a higher european net capture rate. the decreases in cash equity trading revenues and cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses also included an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million related to nasdaq's nordic exchanges. similar to equity derivative trading and clearing, in the u.s. we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as transaction-based expenses. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as transaction-based expenses, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction-based expenses. section 31 fees decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to lower dollar value traded on nasdaq's exchanges, partially offset by higher average sec fee rates. transaction rebates increased in 2019 compared with 2018. for the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq psx and nasdaq canada cxc, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for nasdaq bx and nasdaq canada cx2, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. the increase in 2019 was primarily due to a higher u.s. rebate capture rate, partially offset by lower u.s. industry trading volumes. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to lower section 31 pass-through fees, as discussed above, and lower routing fees. ficc revenues ficc revenues and ficc revenues less transaction-based expenses decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to a decline in u.s. fixed income products revenues as well as a decrease in european commodities products revenues due to lower volumes and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. trade management services revenues trade management services revenues decreased slightly in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million, partially offset by an increase in colocation and port connectivity revenues. * * * * * * corporate services the following table shows revenues from our corporate services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) corporate services: listing services $ 296 $ 290 $ 267 2.1 % 8.6 % corporate solutions 200 197 192 1.5 % 2.6 % total corporate services $ 496 $ 487 $ 459 1.8 % 6.1 % listing services revenues listing services revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher listings revenues resulting from an increase in the number of listed companies, partially offset by the run-off of fees earned from u.s. listing of additional shares and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to an increase in both governance solutions revenues and investor relations intelligence revenues, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. 36 information services the following table shows revenues from our information services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) information services: market data $ 398 $ 390 $ 369 2.1 % 5.7 % index 223 206 171 8.3 % 20.5 % investment data &amp; analytics 158 118 48 33.9 % 145.8 % total information services $ 779 $ 714 $ 588 9.1 % 21.4 % market data revenues market data revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to new proprietary data sales, notably growth in the asia pacific region, and higher u.s. tape revenues from under-reported data usage. the increase was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. index revenues index revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher average aum in etps linked to nasdaq indexes and higher licensing revenues from futures trading linked to the nasdaq 100 index. investment data &amp; analytics revenues investment data &amp; analytics revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to an increase in evestment revenues resulting from a $23 million purchase price adjustment on deferred revenue in 2018, organic growth, and the impact of our acquisition of quandl. * * * * * * market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) market technology $ 338 $ 270 $ 247 25.2 % 9.3 % market technology revenues market technology revenues increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of cinnober, an increase in the size and number of software delivery projects, an increase in saas surveillance revenues, and higher change request revenues, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. other revenues other revenues include the revenues from the bwise enterprise governance, risk and compliance software platform, which was sold in march 2019 and the revenues from the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses which were sold in april 2018. prior to the sale dates, these revenues were included in our corporate solutions business. see 2019 divestitures, and 2018 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these divestitures. 37 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 707 $ 712 $ 670 (0.7 )% 6.3 % professional and contract services 127 144 153 (11.8 )% (5.9 )% computer operations and data communications 133 127 125 4.7 % 1.6 % occupancy 97 95 94 2.1 % 1.1 % general, administrative and other 125 120 82 4.2 % 46.3 % marketing and advertising 39 37 31 5.4 % 19.4 % depreciation and amortization 190 210 188 (9.5 )% 11.7 % regulatory 31 32 33 (3.1 )% (3.0 )% merger and strategic initiatives 30 21 44 42.9 % (52.3 )% restructuring charges 39 n/m % total operating expenses $ 1,518 $ 1,498 $ 1,420 1.3 % 5.5 % _______ n/m not meaningful. compensation and benefits expense decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to lower compensation costs resulting from our 2019 and 2018 divestitures, lower performance incentives, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million, partially offset by higher salary costs and higher compensation expense from our 2019 and 2018 acquisitions. headcount increased to 4,361 employees as of december 31, 2019 from 4,099 as of december 31, 2018 primarily due to our 2019 acquisitions and growth in our market technology and investment data &amp; analytics businesses, partially offset by our 2019 divestitures. professional and contract services expense decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to our 2019 and 2018 divestitures, lower consulting costs, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million, partially offset by higher litigation costs. computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher market data feed costs, partially offset by lower costs resulting from our 2018 divestiture and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. occupancy expense increased in 2019 compared with 2018 mainly due to higher costs associated with additional facility and rent costs resulting from expansion of our new u.s. headquarters in new york and our 2019 and 2018 acquisitions, partially offset by lower costs due to our 2018 divestiture and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. general, administrative and other expense increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to a provision recorded for notes receivable associated with the funding of technology development for the cat, a charge related to a tax reserve for certain prior year examinations, and a charge for a make-whole redemption price premium paid on the early extinguishment of our 2020 notes, partially offset by charges associated with the clearing default which occurred in 2018, lower costs resulting from our 2019 and 2018 divestitures, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the provision for notes receivable is a consequence of changes to the cat project, and particularly the decision by nasdaq and the other exchanges to impair the value of the technology built by the original vendor, who has been replaced. for further discussion of the clearing default, see nasdaq commodities clearing default, of note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements. marketing and advertising expense increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to an increase in advertising spend. depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization expense recorded on capitalized software as a result of our 2019 restructuring plan, a decrease in amortization expense recorded on intangible assets which became fully amortized, a decrease in depreciation expense related to the divestiture of bwise, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. partially offsetting these decreases was additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets. see note 21, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2019 restructuring plan and charges associated with this plan. merger and strategic initiatives expense increased in 2019 compared with 2018. we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed acquisitions and divestitures in recent years which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third 38 party transaction costs and will vary based on the size and frequency of the activities described above. restructuring charges were $39 million in 2019. see note 21, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2019 restructuring plan and charges associated with this plan. * * * * * * non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) interest income $ 10 $ 10 $ 7 % 42.9 % interest expense (124 ) (150 ) (143 ) (17.3 )% 4.9 % net interest expense (114 ) (140 ) (136 ) (18.6 )% 2.9 % gain on sale of investment security 118 (100.0 )% n/m net gain on divestiture of businesses 27 33 (18.2 )% n/m other income 5 7 2 (28.6 )% 250.0 % net income from unconsolidated investees 84 18 15 366.7 % 20.0 % total non-operating income (expenses) $ 2 $ 36 $ (119 ) (94.4 )% (130.3 )% _______ n/m not meaningful. interest expense interest expense decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the refinancing of the 2020 notes with the 2029 notes at a lower interest rate and lower outstanding debt obligations. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. the following table shows our interest expense: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions) interest expense on debt $ 115 $ 140 $ 135 (17.9 )% 3.7 % accretion of debt issuance costs and debt discount 6 7 6 (14.3 )% 16.7 % other fees 3 3 2 % 50.0 % interest expense $ 124 $ 150 $ 143 (17.3 )% 4.9 % * * * * * * gain on sale of investment security in december 2018, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $118 million ($93 million after tax) on the sale of an investment security. see equity securities, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. net gain on divestiture of businesses the net gain on divestiture of businesses in 2019 primarily relates to o ur divestiture of bwise. see 2019 divestitures, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion . the net gain on divestiture of businesses in 2018 relates to our 2018 divestiture. see 2018 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. net income from unconsolidated investees net income from unconsolidated investees increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to income recognized from our equity method investment in occ. see equity method investments, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 39 tax matters the following table shows our income tax provision and effective tax rate: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 ($ in millions) income tax provision $ 245 $ 606 $ 143 (59.6 )% 323.8 % effective tax rate 24.0 % 57.0 % 16.4 % for further discussion of our tax matters, see note 18, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. * * * * * * non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our ongoing operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. in addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate such measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. this non-gaap information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for our operating results in accordance with u.s. gaap. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they highlight trends more clearly in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our ongoing operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting for the following items: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets: we amortize intangible assets acquired in connection with various acquisitions. intangible asset amortization expense can vary from period to period due to episodic acquisitions completed, rather than from our ongoing business operations. as such, if intangible asset amortization is included in performance measures, it is more difficult to assess the day-to-day operating performance of the businesses, the relative operating performance of the businesses between periods, and the earnings power of nasdaq. performance measures excluding intangible asset amortization therefore provide investors with a useful representation of our businesses' ongoing activity in each period. merger and strategic initiatives expense: we have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed acquisitions and divestitures in recent years that have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. these expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third party transaction costs. the frequency and the amount of such expenses vary significantly based on the size, timing and complexity of the transaction. accordingly, we exclude these costs for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures which provide a more meaningful analysis of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparisons in nasdaq's performance between periods. restructuring charges: we initiated the transition of certain technology platforms to advance our strategic opportunities as a technology and analytics provider and continue the re-alignment of certain business areas. see note 21, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2019 restructuring plan. charges associated with this plan represent a fundamental shift in our strategy and technology as well as executive re-alignment and will be excluded for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures as they are not reflective of ongoing operating performance or comparisons in nasdaq's performance between periods. net income from unconsolidated investee: see occ capital plan, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. our income on our investment in occ may vary significantly compared to prior years due to the disapproval of the occ's capital plan. accordingly, we will exclude this income from current and prior periods for purposes of calculating non-gaap measures which provide a more meaningful analysis of nasdaq's ongoing operating performance or comparisons in nasdaq's performance between periods. 40 clearing default loss : in 2018, we recorded a $31 million charge related to a default of a nasdaq clearing commodities member that occurred in september 2018. see nasdaq commodities clearing default, of note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the default. we have excluded the charge related to the default as we believe it is non-recurring, as there has never been another loss due to member default in our clearinghouse, and should be excluded when evaluating the ongoing operating performance of nasdaq. any expenses associated with the evaluation and enhancement of processes and procedures will not be excluded from our gaap results. other significant items: we have excluded certain other charges or gains, including certain tax items, that are the result of other non-comparable events to measure operating performance. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the ongoing financial results of nasdaq. for 2019, other significant items primarily included: a provision for notes receivable associated with the funding of technology development for the cat which is recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income; a loss on extinguishment of debt which is recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income; and a net gain on divestiture of businesses which primarily represents our pre-tax net gain of $27 million on the sale of bwise; other items: a tax reserve for certain prior year examinations which is recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income; certain litigation costs which are recorded in professional and contract services expense in the consolidated statements of income. for 2018, other significant items primarily included: a net gain on divestiture of businesses which represents our pre-tax net gain of $33 million on the sale of the public relations solutions and digital media services businesses; a gain on the sale of an investment security which represents our pre-tax gain of $118 million on the sale of our 5.0% ownership interest in lch group holdings limited, or lch ; other items: charges related to uncertain positions pertaining to sales and use tax and vat which are recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income; and certain litigation costs which are recorded in professional and contract services expense in the consolidated statements of income. significant tax items: the non-gaap adjustment to the income tax provision included the tax impact of each non-gaap adjustment and: for 2019, a tax benefit of $10 million primarily related to an adjustment to the 2018 federal and state tax returns and a tax benefit of $10 million related to capital distributions from the occ. see occ capital plan, of note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our occ investment. for 2018, a net $7 million increase to tax expense due to a remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefits (excluding the reversal of certain swedish tax benefits discussed below) and the impact of state tax rate changes. additional adjustments included the following items: for 2019 and 2018, excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation to reflect the recognition of the income tax effects of share-based awards when awards vest or are settled. this item is subject to volatility and will vary based on the timing of the vesting of employee share-based compensation arrangements and fluctuation in our stock price. for 2018: the impact of enacted u.s. tax legislation, which related to the tax cuts and jobs act that was enacted in december 2017. we recorded an increase to tax expense of $290 million and a reduction to deferred tax assets related to foreign currency translation as a result of the finalization of the provisional estimate related to this act; and a reversal of certain swedish tax benefits. see note 18, income taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 41 the following table shows reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2019 year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 (in millions, except share and per share amounts) net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 774 $ 4.63 $ 458 $ 2.73 $ 729 $ 4.30 non-gaap adjustments: amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 101 0.60 109 0.65 92 0.54 merger and strategic initiatives expense 30 0.18 21 0.13 44 0.26 restructuring charges 39 0.23 net income from unconsolidated investee (82 ) (0.49 ) (16 ) (0.10 ) (13 ) (0.08 ) clearing default loss 31 0.18 provision for notes receivable 20 0.12 extinguishment of debt 11 0.07 10 0.06 net gain on divestiture of businesses (27 ) (0.16 ) (33 ) (0.20 ) gain on sale of investment security (118 ) (0.69 ) other 17 0.11 17 0.10 3 0.02 total non-gaap adjustments 109 0.66 11 0.07 136 0.80 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments and other tax items (43 ) (0.26 ) 6 0.03 (66 ) (0.39 ) excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation (5 ) (0.03 ) (9 ) (0.05 ) (40 ) (0.24 ) impact of enacted u.s. tax legislation 290 1.73 (89 ) (0.52 ) reversal of certain swedish tax benefits 41 0.24 total non-gaap tax adjustments (48 ) (0.29 ) 328 1.95 (195 ) (1.15 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 61 0.37 339 2.02 (59 ) (0.35 ) non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq and diluted earnings per share $ 835 $ 5.00 $ 797 $ 4.75 $ 670 $ 3.95 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 166,970,161 167,691,299 169,585,031 liquidity and capital resources historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock and debt. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. in march 2019, we used net proceeds from the sale of commercial paper and cash on hand to redeem all of our 2019 notes. in april 2019, we issued the 2029 notes and in may 2019, we primarily used the net proceeds from the 2029 notes to repay in full and terminate our 2020 notes. in addition, in june 2019, we used proceeds from issuances of commercial paper to repay in full and terminate our 2016 credit facility, and in february 2020, we issued the 2030 notes. we will primarily use the net proceeds from the 2030 notes to redeem the 2021 notes and for other general corporate purposes. see 1.75% senior unsecured notes due 2029, early extinguishment of 5.55% senior unsecured notes due 2020, early extinguishment of 2016 credit facility, 0.875% 42 senior unsecured notes due 2030, and 3.875% senior unsecured notes due 2021, of note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we have the 2017 credit facility and a commercial paper program, which enable us to borrow efficiently at reasonable short-term interest rates. the commercial paper program is supported by our 2017 credit facility. see commercial paper program, and 2017 credit facility, of note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as of december 31, 2019 , no amounts were outstanding on the 2017 credit facility. the $2 million balance represents unamortized debt issuance costs. of the $1 billion that is available for borrowing, $392 million provides liquidity support for the commercial paper program and for a letter of credit. as such, as of december 31, 2019 , the total remaining amount available under the 2017 credit facility was $608 million , excluding the amounts that support the commercial paper program and letter of credit. as part of the purchase price consideration of a prior acquisition, nasdaq has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of nasdaq common stock annually through 2027. see non-cash contingent consideration, of note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations and the availability under our revolving credit commitment and commercial paper program will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. the value of various assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses, the current portion of long-term debt, and commercial paper, can fluctuate from month to month. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $ 63 million as of december 31, 2019 , compared with $ (200) million as of december 31, 2018 , an increase of $ 263 million . current asset balance changes decreased working capital by $2,080 million , with decreases in default funds and margin deposits, cash and cash equivalents, other current assets, and restricted cash, partially offset by increases in receivables, net and financial investments. current liability balance changes increased working capital by $2,343 million , due to decreases in default funds and margin deposits, short-term debt, other current liabilities, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and accrued personnel costs, partially offset by increases in section 31 fees payable to the sec and deferred revenue. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in regulatory and working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facilities that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates under our credit facilities; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility or disruption in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, regulatory capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 332 $ 545 restricted cash 30 41 financial investments 291 268 total financial assets $ 653 $ 854 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents includes all non-restricted cash in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2019 , our cash and cash equivalents of $332 million were primarily invested in bank deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2019 decreased $213 million from december 31, 2018 , primarily due to: repayments of debt obligations; cash dividends paid on our common stock; cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired; repurchases of our common stock; and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by; net cash provided by operating activities; proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of issuance costs; proceeds from the divestiture of a business; and proceeds from commercial paper, net. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. 43 restricted cash is restricted from withdrawal due to contractual or regulatory requirements or is not available for general use. restricted cash was $30 million as of december 31, 2019 and $41 million as of december 31, 2018 , a decrease of $11 million . the decrease primarily relates to a decrease in cash pledged as collateral. restricted cash is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $160 million as of december 31, 2019 and $367 million as of december 31, 2018 . the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $172 million as of december 31, 2019 and $178 million as of december 31, 2018 . unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. share repurchase program see share repurchase program, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash dividends on common stock the following table shows quarterly cash dividends paid per common share on our outstanding common stock: 2019 2018 first quarter $ 0.44 $ 0.38 second quarter 0.47 0.44 third quarter 0.47 0.44 fourth quarter 0.47 0.44 total $ 1.85 $ 1.70 see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. financial investments our financial investments totaled $291 million as of december 31, 2019 and $268 million as of december 31, 2018 and are primarily comprised of highly rated european government debt securities. of these securities, $169 million as of december 31, 2019 and $166 million as of december 31, 2018 are assets primarily utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements, mainly for our clearing operations at nasdaq clearing. see note 7, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. * * * * * * debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) short-term debt: commercial paper weighted-average maturity of 13 days $ 391 $ 275 senior unsecured floating rate notes repaid march 2019 500 5.55% senior unsecured notes (1) repaid may 2019 599 $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility repaid june 2019 100 total short-term debt 391 1,474 long-term debt: 3.875% senior unsecured notes june 2021 671 686 $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility april 2022 (2 ) (4 ) 1.75% senior unsecured notes may 2023 668 682 4.25% senior unsecured notes june 2024 497 497 3.85% senior unsecured notes june 2026 497 496 1.75% senior unsecured notes march 2029 665 total long-term debt 2,996 2,357 total debt obligations $ 3,387 $ 3,831 ____________ (1) balance was reclassified to short-term debt as of march 31, 2019. in addition to the $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, we also have other credit facilities primarily related to our nasdaq clearing operations in order to provide further liquidity. other credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, 44 totaled $203 million as of december 31, 2019 and $234 million as of december 31, 2018 , in available liquidity, of which $15 million was utilized as of december 31, 2019 and none of which was utilized as of december 31, 2018 . as of december 31, 2019 , we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. * * * * * * regulatory capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of nasdaq clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. as of december 31, 2019 , our required regulatory capital of $147 million is comprised of highly rated european government debt securities that are included in financial investments in the consolidated balance sheets. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, execution access, npm securities, smtx, and nasdaq capital markets advisory, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. as of december 31, 2019 , the combined required minimum net capital totaled $1 million and the combined excess capital totaled $48 million, substantially all of which is held in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets. the required minimum net capital is included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. nordic and baltic exchange regulatory capital requirements the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulations and are required to maintain regulatory capital intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. as of december 31, 2019 , our required regulatory capital of $33 million is invested in european government debt securities that are included in financial investments and restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. other capital requirements we operate several other businesses which are subject to local regulation and are required to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. as of december 31, 2019 , other required regulatory capital was $11 million and was primarily included in restricted cash and financial investments in the consolidated balance sheets. * * * * * * cash flow analysis the following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 net cash provided by (used in): (in millions) operating activities $ 963 $ 1,028 $ 909 (6.3 )% 13.1 % investing activities (240 ) 196 (890 ) (222.4 )% (122.0 )% financing activities (937 ) (1,027 ) (53 ) (8.8 )% 1,837.7 % effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (10 ) (10 ) 15 % (166.7 )% net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (224 ) 187 (19 ) (219.8 )% (1,084.2 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 586 399 418 46.9 % (4.5 )% cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 362 $ 586 $ 399 (38.2 )% 46.9 % net cash provided by operating activities net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items such as: depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment; amortization expense of acquired finite-lived intangible assets which can be episodic, depending on the timing and size of a related business combination; expense associated with share-based compensation; and net income from unconsolidated investees. net cash provided by operating activities is also impacted by the effects of changes in operating assets and liabilities such as: accounts receivable which is impacted by the timing of customer billings and related collections from our customers; accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of payments; accrued personnel costs which are impacted by employee performance targets and the timing of payments 45 related to employee bonus incentives; and section 31 fees payable to the sec, which is impacted by the timing of collections from customers and payments to the sec. net cash provided by operating activities decreased $65 million in 2019 compared with 2018. the decrease was primarily driven by higher performance incentive payments made in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to prior year performance, a decline in cash flows related to our 2019 and 2018 divestitures, and payments made in 2019 associated with the capital relief program, partially offset by cash flows from our 2019 acquisitions and growth in net income. net cash used in (provided by) investing activities net cash used in investing activities for 2019 primarily relates to $206 million of cash used for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, $127 million of purchases of property and equipment, and $36 million of net purchases of securities, partially offset by receipt of cash of $132 million related to our 2019 divestitures. net cash provided by investing activities for 2018 primarily relates to $286 million of cash received from our 2018 divestiture and $169 million of proceeds from the sale of an investment security, partially offset by $111 million of purchases of property and equipment, $101 million of cash used for our 2018 acquisition, and $47 million of net purchases of securities. net cash used in financing activities net cash used in financing activities for 2019 primarily relates to $1,215 million in repayments of debt obligations, $305 million of dividend payments to our shareholders, and $200 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $680 million from proceeds related to long-term debt issuances and $116 million in net borrowings of commercial paper. net cash used in financing activities for 2018 primarily relates to $394 million in repurchases of common stock, $280 million of dividend payments to our shareholders, $205 million of net repayments of commercial paper, and $115 million of repayments of debt obligations. see note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisitions and divestitures. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. see share repurchase program, and cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq stockholders' equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program and cash dividends paid on our common stock. * * * * * * contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, operating lease payments, and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2019 . payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 3,847 $ 481 $ 827 $ 1,278 $ 1,261 operating lease obligations (2) 508 77 113 78 240 real estate obligations (3) 128 12 27 89 purchase obligations (4) 54 26 28 other obligations (5) 9 9 total $ 4,546 $ 593 $ 980 $ 1,383 $ 1,590 ____________ (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. as of december 31, 2019, an interest rate of 2.73% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2017 credit facility. all other debt obligations were primarily calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount as of december 31, 2019. see note 10, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) operating lease obligations represent our undiscounted operating lease liabilities as of december 31, 2019. see note 17, leases, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our leases. (3) real estate obligations include legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. (4) purchase obligations primarily represent minimum outstanding obligations due under software license agreements. (5) other obligations primarily consist of potential future escrow agreement payments related to prior acquisitions. 46 no n-cash contingent consideration see non-cash contingent consideration, of note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. off-balance sheet arrangements for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; and note 19, commitments, contingencies and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of: guarantees issued and credit facilities available; other guarantees; non-cash contingent consideration; escrow agreements; routing brokerage activities; legal and regulatory matters; and tax audits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations which are discussed below. financial investments as of december 31, 2019 , our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of highly rated european government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and the fair value of these securities will decrease if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2019 , the fair value of this portfolio would have declined by $7 million . debt obligations as of december 31, 2019 , substantially all of our debt obligations are fixed-rate obligations. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of the amounts outstanding from the sale of commercial paper under our commercial paper program, which have variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2019 , we had principal amounts outstanding of $391 million of commercial paper. a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on our outstanding commercial paper would increase annual interest expense by approximately $4 million based on borrowings as of december 31, 2019 . 47 foreign currency exchange rate risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. our primary transactional exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 are presented in the following tables: euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2019 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1193 0.1057 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 7.7 % 7.6 % 5.0 % 79.7 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income (1) 13.9 % (4.3 )% (5.8 )% 96.2 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (19 ) $ (19 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (51 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14 ) $ (4 ) $ (6 ) $ $ (24 ) euro swedish krona other foreign currencies u.s. dollar total (in millions, except currency rate) year ended december 31, 2018 average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar 1.1800 0.1150 # n/a n/a percentage of revenues less transaction-based expenses 8.9 % 7.3 % 5.2 % 78.6 % 100.0 % percentage of operating income 11.3 % 0.1 % (7.0 )% 95.6 % 100.0 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction-based expenses $ (23 ) $ (18 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (54 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (12 ) $ $ (7 ) $ $ (19 ) ____________ (1) the decrease in 2019 percentage of operating income in swedish krona is primarily driven by costs associated with our 2019 restructuring plan. see note 21, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2019 restructuring plan. # represents multiple foreign currency rates. n/a not applicable. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries' net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting using a current rate of exchange, with net gains or losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2019 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (in millions) swedish krona (1) $ 3,247 $ (325 ) norwegian krone 174 (17 ) canadian dollar 120 (12 ) british pound 222 (22 ) euro 33 (3 ) australian dollar 105 (11 ) ____________ (1) includes goodwill of $2,397 million and intangible assets, net of $600 million . credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, 48 counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. for our investment portfolio, our objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiary, nasdaq execution services, may be exposed to credit risk due to the default of trading counterparties in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to the nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from trade execution risk. however, nasdaq has membership obligations to nscc independent of nasdaq execution services' arrangements. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services' clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services' customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. historically, nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer's failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. execution access is an introducing broker which operates the trading platform for our fixed income business to trade in u.s. treasury securities. execution access has a clearing arrangement with industrial and commercial bank of china financial services llc, or icbc. as of december 31, 2019 , we have contributed $15 million of clearing deposits to icbc in connection with this clearing arrangement. these deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. some of the trading activity in execution access is cleared by icbc through the fixed income clearing corporation, with icbc acting as agent. execution access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation. counterparty risk of clients exists for execution access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is at least one business day (or more, if specified by the u.s. treasury issuance calendar). counterparties that do not clear through the fixed income clearing corporation are subject to a credit due diligence process and may be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to execution access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk. daily position trading limits are also enforced for such counterparties. we have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties' creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. on january 1, 2020, we adopted asu 2016-13, measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. see financial instruments - credit losses, of recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. this asu changes the impairment model for certain financial instruments. the new model is a forward looking expected loss model and applies to financial assets subject to credit losses and measured at amortized cost and certain off-balance sheet credit exposures. this includes loans, held-to-maturity debt securities, loan commitments, financial guarantees and trade receivables. we also are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq clearing. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. our clearinghouse holds material amounts of clearing member cash deposits which are held or invested primarily to provide security of capital while minimizing credit, market and liquidity risks. while we seek to achieve a reasonable rate of return, we are primarily concerned with preservation of capital and managing the risks associated with these deposits. as the clearinghouse may pass on interest revenues (minus costs) to the members, this could include negative or reduced yield due to market conditions. the following is a summary of the risks associated with these deposits and how these risks are mitigated. credit risk. when the clearinghouse has the ability to hold cash collateral at a central bank, the clearinghouse utilizes its access to the central bank system to minimize credit risk exposures. when funds are not held at a central bank, we seek to substantially mitigate credit risk by ensuring that 49 investments are primarily placed in highly rated government and supranational debt instruments. liquidity risk. liquidity risk is the risk a clearinghouse may not be able to meet its payment obligations in the right currency, in the right place and the right time. to mitigate this risk, the clearinghouse monitors liquidity requirements closely and maintains funds and assets in a manner which minimizes the risk of loss or delay in the access by the clearinghouse to such funds and assets. for example, holding funds with a central bank where possible or investing in highly liquid government or supranational debt instruments serves to reduce liquidity risks. interest rate risk. interest rate risk is the risk that interest rates rise causing the value of purchased securities to decline. if we were required to sell securities prior to maturity, and interest rates had risen, the sale of the securities might be made at a loss relative to the latest market price. our clearinghouse seeks to manage this risk by making short term investments of members' cash deposits. in addition, the clearinghouse investment guidelines allow for direct purchases or repurchase agreements of high quality sovereign debt (for example, european government and u.s. treasury securities), central bank certificates and supranational debt instruments with short dated maturities. security issuer risk. security issuer risk is the risk that an issuer of a security defaults on its payment when the security matures. this risk is mitigated by limiting allowable investments and collateral under reverse repurchase agreements to high quality sovereign, government agency or supranational debt instruments. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . revenue recognition corporate services revenues listing services revenues listing services revenues primarily include annual renewal fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, the initial listing fee is allocated to multiple performance obligations including initial and subsequent listing services and corporate solutions services (when a company qualifies to receive these services under the applicable nasdaq rule), as well as a customer's material right to renew the option to list on our exchanges. in performing this allocation, the standalone selling price of the performance obligations is based on the initial and annual listing fees and the standalone selling price of the corporate solutions services is based on its market value. all listing fees are billed upfront and the identified performance obligations are satisfied over time since the customer receives and consumes the benefit as nasdaq provides the listing service. the amount of revenue related to the corporate solutions services performance obligation is recognized ratably over a two-year period, which is based on contract terms, with the remaining revenue recognized ratably over six years which is based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. market technology revenues we enter into long-term contracts with customers to develop customized technology solutions, license the right to use software and provide support and other services to our customers which results in these contracts containing multiple performance obligations. we allocate the contract transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. in instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the standalone selling price predominantly through an expected cost plus a margin approach. we generally recognize revenue over time as our customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by our performance because our customer controls the asset for which we are creating, our performance does not create an asset with alternative use, and we have a right to payment for performance completed to date. for these services, we recognize revenue over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligation. incurred costs represent work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. accounting for our long-term contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks and their impact on the estimate of revenues and costs. our estimates are impacted by factors such as the potential for schedule and technical issues, productivity, and the complexity of work performed. when adjustments in estimated total contract costs are required, any changes in the estimated revenues from prior estimates are recognized in the current period for the effect of such change. if estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenues, a provision for the entire estimated loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. for further discussion related to recognition of these fees, see revenue from contracts with customers - revenue recognition - corporate services - listing services, and 50 revenue from contracts with customers - revenue recognition - market technology, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our five reporting units are the market services segment, the two businesses comprising the corporate services segment: listing services and corporate solutions, the information services segment, and the market technology segment. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date. when testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as the basis to determine if it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. in performing a qualitative assessment, we consider the extent to which unfavorable events or circumstances identified, such as changes in economic conditions, industry and market conditions or company specific events, could affect the comparison of the reporting unit's fair value with its carrying amount. if we choose not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit, or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a quantitative test is required. when assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for a reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over its carrying amount at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments. the quantitative goodwill impairment test consists of two steps performed at the reporting unit level. the first step compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the reporting unit's estimated fair value exceeds its estimated carrying amount, goodwill is not impaired. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. on january 1, 2020, we adopted asu 2017-04, simplifying the test for goodwill impairment, or asu 2017-04. see goodwill, of recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments at the time of our 2019 annual impairment test: october 1, 2019 (in millions) market services $ 3,292 corporate services 439 information services 2,238 market technology 263 $ 6,232 in 2019, we performed a qualitative goodwill impairment test for all reporting units, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts at the time of the last quantitative test in 2017 were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment, we evaluated the performance of each of these reporting units since the last quantitative test, as well as future financial projections to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in fasb accounting standards codification topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a predominance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. no goodwill impairment was recorded in 2019, 2018 and 2017. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management's judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our 51 forecasts of cash flows or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, primarily exchange and clearing registrations, are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using an october 1 measurement date and may first perform a qualitative assessment, considering similar factors as discussed above in the goodwill impairment discussion, to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. if we elect to perform or are required to perform a quantitative assessment, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount as of the impairment testing date. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses and the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. during our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2019, we performed a qualitative test as the excess fair value of each individual indefinite-lived intangible asset over its respective carrying amount at the time of the last quantitative test in 2017 was significant. based on the results of the qualitative assessment, we concluded based on a predominance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our indefinite-lived intangible assets are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. there were no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in 2019, 2018 and 2017. subsequent to our annual indefinite-lived impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. other long-lived assets and related impairment we review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments and equity securities, as well as property and equipment, for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. fair value of finite-lived intangible assets and property and equipment is based on various valuation techniques. we evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. for equity securities, when assessing investments in private companies for impairment, we consider such factors as, among others, the share price from the investee's latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets, the investee's liquidity and cash position, and general market conditions. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. no material impairments were recorded to reduce the carrying value of our finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments or equity securities during 2019, 2018 or 2017. we recorded pre-tax, non-cash property and equipment asset impairment charges of $24 million in 2019. the asset impairment charge in 2019 primarily related to capitalized software that was retired and is included in restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income for 2019. see note 21, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our 2019 restructuring plan. there were no other material impairments of property and equipment recorded in 2019, 2018 or 2017. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a 52 corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. recent accounting pronouncements see recent accounting pronouncements, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements that are applicable to nasdaq. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 22 business risk factor, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. part i item 1. business. nasdaq overview we are a leading provider of securities listing, trading, and information products and services. our revenue sources are diverse and include revenues from transaction services, market data products and services, listing fees, and financial products. we operate the nasdaq stock market, the largest electronic equity securities market in the united states, both in terms of number of listed companies and traded share volume. as of december 31, 2005, we were home to approximately 3,200 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of over $3.8 trillion. we also operate the nasdaq market center, which provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market and other national stock exchanges. transactions involving 363.3 billion equity securities were executed on or reported to our systems in 2005, 13.9% higher than the 319.1 billion in 2004. we manage, operate and provide our products and services in two business segments, our issuer services segment and our market services segment. 4 table of contents issuer services . our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business and our financial products business. the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including information technology, financial services, healthcare, consumer products and industrials. we also develop and license financial products and associated derivatives based on nasdaq indexes. these include the qqq, which is an exchange traded fund, or etf, based on the nasdaq-100 index. the qqq is one of the most actively traded etfs in the world and the most actively traded listed security in the united states. we have also introduced financial products based on other nasdaq indexes, including the nasdaq composite index and the nasdaq biotechnology index. in addition, we generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. for the year ended december 31, 2005, issuer services accounted for revenues of $226.1 million, which represented 25.7% of our total revenues and 43.0% of our gross margin (total revenues less cost of revenues). see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. market services . our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. the nasdaq market center is our transaction-based platform that provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes, which enabled our customers to execute trades in over 7,700 equity securities during 2005. the nasdaq market center allows us to route and execute buy and sell orders as well as report transactions for nasdaq-listed securities and those listed on national stock exchanges, including the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, and the american stock exchange, or the amex, providing fee-based revenues. we also generate revenues by providing varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. our systems enable vendors to gain direct access to our detailed order data, index information, mutual fund pricing information, and corporate action information on nasdaq-listed securities. for the year ended december 31, 2005, market services revenues were $653.6 million, which represented 74.3% of nasdaq total revenues. market services gross margin was $299.7 million, which represented 57.0% of total gross margin. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. inet acquisition. on december 8, 2005, we completed our acquisition of instinet group incorporated and the immediate sale of instinet institutional brokerage division to an affiliate of silver lake partners, ii, l.p, or slp, a private equity firm. as a result of these transactions, nasdaq owns inet ecn. we acquired inet because we believe it enables us to enhance our premier electronic equities market and provides superior execution opportunities for our customers. our integration of inet is well underway. we expect to begin migrating trading activity to the inet platform early in the third quarter of 2006. the migration of the customer communication networks resulting from the migration of trading activity to the inet platform is expected to continue into the fourth quarter, resulting in a full integration of inet in the fourth quarter of 2006. these time frames assume nasdaq will receive prompt sec approval of its single book and other integration-related rule proposals. we believe that the migration to the inet platform will enable us to compete more effectively for trade executions in nyse- and amex-listed securities and to deliver increased capabilities demanded by our customers. as part of the integration, on february 1, 2006, we merged inet ats, inc., the entity operating the inet ecn, into our broker-dealer subsidiary, brut, llc. nasdaq history and structure we were founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of national association of securities dealers, inc., or nasd, which operates subject to the oversight of the u.s. securities and exchange commission. nasd is the largest self-regulatory organization, or sro, in the united states with a membership that includes virtually every 5 table of contents broker-dealer that engages in the securities business within the united states. beginning in 2000, nasd restructured and broadened our ownership through a two-phase private placement of our securities. securities in the private placements were offered to all nasd members, as well as some issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market and investment companies. in connection with the restructuring, on november 9, 2000, we applied with the sec for registration as a national securities exchange. on january 13, 2006, the sec approved our exchange application. we will begin operating as an exchange once we satisfy conditions specified by the sec. we expect to satisfy these conditions by the second quarter of 2006. however, since some of these conditions require action by third parties or approval by the sec, we can give no assurances that we will begin operating as an exchange by that time. until we satisfy the conditions specified by the sec to operate as an exchange, nasd has delegated to us legal authority to operate as a stock market under a delegation plan approved by the sec. the sec also requires that nasd retain greater than 50.0% of the voting control over us while the delegation plan is in place. although we exercise primary responsibility for market-related functions, including market-related rulemaking and interpretations, all actions taken pursuant to authority delegated by nasd are subject to review, ratification, or rejection by the nasd board. as long as the delegation plan remains in effect, the nasd board will continue to have control of and broad authority over us. once we are operative as an exchange, we will receive our own status as a self-regulatory organization, or sro, separate from that of nasd. pursuant to securities laws, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. as an sro, nasdaq will have its own rules pertaining to its members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by nasd. broker-dealers will be able to choose to become members of nasdaq, in addition to their memberships with other sros, including nasd. nasd will provide regulatory services to us once we begin to operate as an exchange. see regulatory contractual relationships with nasd and nasdr. industry listing function. nasdaq and the nyse are the two primary listing venues for equity securities in the united states. approximately 3,200 companies were listed on the nasdaq stock market as of december 31, 2005, compared to approximately 2,760 listed on nyse and 750 companies listed on amex. as of december 31, 2005, arcaex was the sole listing venue for only 10 companies. while the status of arcaex as a listing venue following its merger with nyse is not entirely clear, published statements indicate that the combined entity may use the arcaex as a junior listing venue to compete for companies that have not historically qualified for listing on the nyse. there is substantial competition for listings from companies that are selling shares for the first time through an ipo. of the 213 ipos on u.s. equity markets during 2005, 126, or approximately 59%, chose to list on the nasdaq stock market and they raised approximately $12.3 billion in equity capital. the remainder listed on the nyse or other markets. there is also substantial competition among the markets to encourage companies to switch listing venues or to list on more than one venue. in 2004, nasdaq implemented an initiative to allow nyse-listed companies to list their stock both on the nasdaq stock market and the nyse. since announcing this dual-listing service, 6 table of contents several high profile companies have dual-listed on the nasdaq stock market, including american financial group, chicago mercantile exchange, harmony gold, hewlett-packard and walgreens. additionally, during 2005, cadence design systems and charles schwab switched their listings to nasdaq exclusively, after previously maintaining a dual-listing on nasdaq and the nyse. in 2005, sears switched its listing to nasdaq from the nyse as a result of its merger with kmart. international exchanges, such as the london stock exchange plc, or lse, are becoming more significant competitors for international listings. trading execution function. the principal market centers for buying and selling equity securities in the united states are the nasdaq stock market, other national securities exchanges, including the nyse and amex and, to a lesser extent, the regional stock exchanges, and ecns (sometimes referred to as alternative trading systems). these market centers employ different business models for displaying current bids, offers and orders for the purchase and sale of securities and for executing those bids, offers and orders against each other. nasdaq competes vigorously for executions in all equity securities traded in the united states. we handle trades in a significant majority of shares executed in nasdaq-listed securities. in addition, we are the largest single market for amex-listed securities and represent the largest alternative in nyse-listed securities. we compete through offering efficient, fair, highly reliable and transparent executions as well as innovative and flexible order types. as industry functions such as smart order routing and order pegging or other new functions become commonplace, we compete by providing those functions at low cost due to our efficiencies in scale and scope as well as the reliability of our systems. although we do not charge additional fees for these value-added services, we benefit by bringing additional orders into our systems for matching. unlike specialist-based auction markets, such as the nyse and amex, the nasdaq market center, our transaction-based electronic platform, is a fully computerized, screen-based system that links over 233 competing market makers who commit capital and buy inventory to sell to market participants from their own account. the average nasdaq-listed stock has over 25 market makers, who are required at all times to post their bid and offer prices into the nasdaq market center, where the bids and offers can be reviewed and accessed for automatic execution by all market participants. in addition, our system provides a mechanism for broker-dealers (i.e., order entry firms) to post non-marketable limit orders for their own account and from their customers on an agency basis, further enhancing liquidity in the nasdaq market center. nasdaq-listed securities trade not just through the nasdaq market center, but also through other market centers such as nyse, amex, ecns and regional exchanges. currently, nasdaq-listed securities trade on several ecns and regional exchanges and are reported to amex, the chicago stock exchange, the boston stock exchange, the national exchange, nasd alternative display facility, and the pacific exchange. competition among market centers for trading volume is intense because trading volume has become increasingly portable, with broker-dealers developing systems that quickly enable them to simultaneously view liquidity across all venues and to route orders to the destination offering the best price or execution service. nasdaq generally generates fees for transaction execution services through a transaction execution charge, assessed on a per share basis to the party that accesses the liquidity by another market participant. nasdaq earns revenues based on its share of trading securities listed on the nyse and amex via the nasdaq market center, although the majority of trading at least with respect to nyse-listed securities continues to occur on the primary listing market. for example, 76.8% of the trading volume in nyse securities occurred on the nyse and 16.9% was executed on the nasdaq market center in 2005. with the acquisition of inet, we are now one of the largest order flow providers to the floor of the nyse. we offer efficiencies in our business model that have enabled us recently to increase our trading volume in nyse-listed securities. the market data function. nasdaq provides proprietary data to the investing public. because our systems are electronic and inclusive in nature, we are able to provide a level of market transparency to all investors that is only available to a small segment of the investing population in a floor-based model. we use our broad distribution network of approximately 100 market data vendors and market participants to deliver data regarding 7 table of contents our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we expect our data opportunities to continue to expand as we work with the industry and with investors to meet their data needs as they become more complex. nasdaq also serves as a central consolidator of basic real-time quote and trade data for nasdaq securities. we act jointly with other exchanges to collect and disseminate a consolidated stream of quotation and transaction information under national market system plans approved by the sec, the consolidated tape plan, or the cta plan, and the consolidated quotation plan, or the cq plan, in the case of exchange-listed securities, and the nasdaq unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, in the case of nasdaq-listed stocks. the information collected under these national market system plans is sold for a fee to data vendors, who in turn sell the information to the public. these fees are referred to as tape fees. after costs are deducted, the tape fees are distributed among the participants in each of the national market system plans based on their transaction volume. some regional exchanges, such as the national stock exchange, have established programs to share the tape fee revenue they received under the utp plan with market participants that execute and/or report trades in securities through their facilities, in order to increase their share of tape fee revenue. nasdaq also implemented a program to share the tape fee revenue it earned from the utp plan. regulation nms will change the method for sharing market data revenues under the plans. the changes will introduce a quote component to the sharing methodology. until the rule becomes effective, expected in september 2006, the revenue impact of the change is not completely predictable. because nasdaq is an active quoting exchange participant the impact on our nasdaq-listed revenue should be negligible. nasdaq also receives a share of the data revenue that is generated in non-nasdaq-listed securities because of our quoting and trading success in those securities. additionally, due to our electronic nature, and thus our active quoting behavior in non-nasdaq securities, the regulation nms-generated change in the sharing methodology may have a positive impact on nasdaq share of the non-nasdaq market data revenue. to the extent that our trading in nyse securities increases, our share of the data revenue should also increase. finally, to the extent we continue to increase our trading volume in nyse stocks, our opportunity to provide enhanced depth and analytical data to investors on nyse stocks will also increase. nasdaq share of utp and cta/cq plan market data fees and tape fee revenue is directly tied to our share of trade executions, executed dollar volume and quote activity in nasdaq and non-nasdaq-listed securities. any increase in our market share will have a positive impact on our market data fees and tape fee revenue. products and services nasdaq operates in two segments: issuer services and market services. financial information about segments and geographic areas may be found in note 18, segments, to our consolidated financial statements. issuer services. our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business and our financial products business. securities listings business . we operate our securities listings business as the corporate client group, which provides customer support services and products to nasdaq-listed companies and is responsible for obtaining new listings on the nasdaq stock market. more companies list on the nasdaq stock market than any other u.s. market. the nasdaq stock market currently has two tiers of listed companies: the nasdaq national market, which included 2645 companies as of december 31, 2005, and the nasdaq capital market, which included 563 companies as of december 31, 2005. during 2004, 260 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 225 listings on the nasdaq national market. during 2005, 269 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 227 listings on the nasdaq national market. in addition, we had 335 foreign companies listed on our markets in 2004, and 343 in 2005. in february 2006, we announced plans to create a new market tier for public companies. the standards for the new nasdaq global select market will have financial and liquidity requirements that are higher than those of any other market. subject to regulatory approvals, we expect to implement the new market tier on july 1, 2006. 8 table of contents the companies that list on the nasdaq stock market operate in diverse industries. the following chart shows the percentage of nasdaq-listed u.s. companies by industry as of december 31, 2005. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies undergoing ipos. year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market 126 148 54 percentage of initial public offerings on primary u.s. markets 59 % 61 % 64 % capital raised by initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market (in billions) $ 12.3 $ 15.0 $ 6.2 the fluctuation in the number of u.s. ipos on the nasdaq stock market from 2003-2005 was primarily due to market conditions. over the past few years, competition for new listings has come primarily from the nyse, although there is also strong international competition. after the initial listing, our corporate client group provides customer support services, products and programs to nasdaq-listed companies. to offer additional services to our listed companies, we acquired carpenter moore and the nasdaq insurance agency, llc, independent insurance brokerage firms, in 2005 and shareholder.com, a firm specializing in shareholder communications and investor relations intelligence services in february 2006. additionally, in 2005, we entered into a joint venture with reuters to form the independent research network, which will aggregate multiple, independent research providers to distribute equity research on behalf of under-covered companies. see footnote 3, business combinations. since we announced an initiative to allow nyse-listed issuers to dually list their stock on the nasdaq stock market and the nyse in january 2004, several high profile nyse-listed companies have dual-listed with nasdaq. the dual-listing initiative did not have a material effect on listing revenues during 2004 and 2005 because we agreed to waive fees for dually listed nyse companies for the first year of listing. companies that 9 table of contents continue to dual list after the initial year pay a reduced annual fee of $15,000. we continue to target additional companies about joining the dual-listing program. the dual-listing program is an important part of our strategy to convince nyse-listed companies to switch and list exclusively on the nasdaq stock market. in 2005, cadence design systems and charles schwab switched from being dual-listed to listing solely on the nasdaq stock market. in 2006, ual corporation, the parent company of united airlines, listed with nasdaq. we have also attracted listings from foreign companies seeking to access u.s. capital markets, and we believe that significant opportunities exist to gain new listings from foreign companies. each year some companies cease listing with us for several reasons. in 2005, 332 companies ceased listing on the nasdaq stock market compared with 322 in 2004. companies cease listing for three primary reasons: failing to meet our listing standards, merger and acquisition activity and, to a lesser extent, switching to another listing venue. delistings of issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market during 2005 increased by only 3% compared with 2004. nasdaq charges issuers an initial listing fee, a listing of additional shares fee and an annual fee. the initial listing fee for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. the fee for listing of additional shares is based on the total shares outstanding, which nasdaq reviews quarterly. annual fees for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market are based on total shares outstanding. initial listing and listing of additional shares fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are six and four years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience, pursuant to the requirements of sec staff accounting bulletin topic 13: revenue recognition. financial products business . nasdaq develops and licenses nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of nasdaq financial products. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq brand. nasdaq license fees for its trademark licenses vary by product based on assets or number or underlying dollar value of contracts issued. in addition to generating licensing revenues for nasdaq, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. in 2005, we continued to provide growth by launching nasdaq index watch, a subscription based index information service, and launching eight new indexes. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial companies listed on the nasdaq stock market. as of december 31, 2005, it was the benchmark for approximately 33 domestic and international mutual funds. nasdaq licenses cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on its indexes as well as options and single stock futures on qqq. in addition to license fees, nasdaq is reimbursed by the qqq trust for marketing activities designed to promote the trust. during 2004, qqq average daily trading volume was 98.5 million shares and its average daily dollar volume was approximately $3.6 billion. during 2005, qqq average daily trading volume was 90.4 million shares and its average daily dollar volume was approximately $3.5 billion. qqq is one of the most actively traded etfs in the world and the most actively traded listed equity security in the united states. as of december 31, 2005, the qqq trust had issued approximately 502 million shares and assets under management had reached $20.3 billion. market services. our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. the nasdaq market center. the nasdaq market center is our transaction-based platform that provides market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market. during 2005, the nasdaq market center also allowed us to route and execute buy and sell orders and report transactions for over 7,700 equity securities (including etfs) consisting of nasdaq-listed securities and securities listed on other stock exchanges, such as the nyse and amex. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers operating as ecns, registered stock exchanges and other broker-dealers. we provide these services for nasdaq-listed and exchange-listed securities. 10 table of contents trade execution services . we provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market. specifically, the nasdaq market center: provides a comprehensive display of the interest by our market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross and closing cross. provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. our execution services generate revenues from: transaction execution charges, which are charges assessed on a per share basis to the party that accesses the liquidity provided by another market participant. in most circumstances, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge as a rebate (presented as cost of revenues) to the market participant that provides the liquidity (liquidity is the number and range of buy and sell orders available to our market participants). these charges represent our primary fee for execution services. our share of tape fees for the trading of securities listed on the nyse and amex. on december 8, 2005, we completed the acquisition of inet ecn. the migration of our current trading systems to inet technologically advanced trading system will accelerate our transition to a lower cost system. we have announced plans to introduce the fully anonymous nasdaq crossing network, which includes midday and post-close crosses, in 2006 subject to regulatory approvals, which will provide investors with an efficient and accurate single price at specific times during the trading day. to enhance market transparency, we introduced the opening cross and closing cross in 2004. the opening cross is a process for pre-market open trading and price discovery consisting of a centralized order facility that provides market participants and investors with a highly transparent and accurate opening price in nasdaq-listed securities. similarly, the closing cross is a centralized order facility that provides an orderly market close for nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting services . all registered stock exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. we provide three primary revenue-generating reporting services: trade reporting currently, we do not charge market participants for most of the trades they report to us. we do, however, earn revenues for all trades reported to us in the form of shared market information revenues under the utp plan. a large percentage of trades reported to us are orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and are submitted to us for reporting purposes only. these trades are reported to the securities information processor as part of the utp plan. trade comparison we also generate revenues by providing trade comparison to our market participants by matching and locking-in the two market participants to a trade that they have submitted to us for reporting and clearing. risk management we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. access services to our trading platform . we provide our market participants with several alternatives for accessing the nasdaq market center for a fee. some of the access service alternatives that we have historically provided are low margin businesses, and we have taken steps to retire them. by shifting connectivity to the nasdaq market center from proprietary networks to third-party networks, we have significantly reduced our technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. 11 table of contents the nasdaq market center may be accessed using our financial information exchange, or fix, product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, which enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to us. we have also developed qix, a new proprietary programming interface that will provide a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates that is also more cost effective than previous nasdaq proprietary interfaces. with the retirement of the proprietary mci network in 2005, individual market participants are now responsible for directly maintaining connectivity to the nasdaq market center, in most cases by connecting through a third party financial extranet provider. market participants may also access the nasdaq market center using computer-to-computer interface, another protocol, which allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. both nasdaq workstation ii and our application program interface were retired at the end of 2005 and all current market participants using these access methods were migrated to fix and/or qix, and to the new nasdaq workstation, an internet browser based front end that allows firms to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. we migrated users away from nasdaq workstation ii in part because we are exiting the low-margin business of providing proprietary network connectivity to the nasdaq market center. market information. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public as part of our nasdaq market services subscriptions business. we collect information, distribute it and earn revenues in different roles. we operate as the exclusive securities information processor as part of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of the best bid and offer information and last transaction information from the exchanges and markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. we do not generate any profits from our role as the securities information processor. in our role as the securities information processor, we collect and disseminate quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to data vendors, which the data vendors then sell to the public. after deducting costs associated with acting as an exclusive securities information processor, we distribute the tape fees to the respective utp plan participants, including us, based on a combination of the participants respective trade volume and share volume. in addition, all the nasdaq market center trades in exchange-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and amex-listed securities. as an exchange, we will no longer have to share our revenues under the utp plan related to information about our individual market participants quotations. we will still be required to share utp plan revenue related to trade reports and the best priced quotations in our market. we hope to become operational as an exchange during the second quarter of 2006. see regulation sec and self-regulatory organization regulation. our market participants have real-time access to quote and trade data. interested parties that are not direct market participants in the nasdaq stock market also can receive real-time quote and trade information beyond the best bid and offer quotes through a number of proprietary products that we offer. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross and closing cross. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. in 2005, our totalview subscribers doubled in number. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: openview, launched in 2005, a product providing complete depth-of-book liquidity for the nasdaq market center in nyse- and amex-listed securities; 12 table of contents modelview, launched in 2005, a product designed to provide greater insight into the patterns of liquidity in the nasdaq market center; orderview, launched in 2005, a market data feed that facilitates program and algorithmic trading; the mutual fund quotation service, a listing service for over 20,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; the mutual fund dissemination service, a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds listed with us; nasdaq.com, a leading financial website for the investor community that generates revenues from advertising and product sales; nasdaqtrader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data venders with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as open and closing crosses) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee; and nasdaq index dissemination service, a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs. other products and markets on september 2, 2005, nasdaq executed the otc bulletin board agreement with nasd related to the otcbb, an electronic screen-based quotation service for securities that, among other things, are not listed on the nasdaq stock market or any u.s. national securities exchange. under the otcbb agreement, effective october 1, 2005, nasdaq transferred responsibility for the otcbb back to nasd. this transfer is designed to address concerns expressed by the sec regarding our continuing to operate the otcbb after our registration as a national securities exchange. consideration for the otcbb agreement is nasd agreement to outsource the operation of the otcbb to nasdaq for an initial two year period, subject to one year renewals upon mutual consent. nasd will pay nasdaq $14.2 million in the first year and $14.7 million in the second year for nasdaq services under the otcbb agreement. fee changes we may change the pricing of our products and services in response to competitive pressures or changes in market or general economic conditions. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, nasdaq must file all proposals for a change in its pricing structure with the sec. nasdaq provides updated information on the pricing of its products and services on its website at www.nasdaqtrader.com . see also competition and risk factors we face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results. technology over the past three years, we have reduced our technology costs, consistent with our regulatory obligations, by migrating to fewer, less expensive technology platforms, introducing less expensive network solutions, and by reducing our workforce. we believe that our transaction speed throughput and system reliability will be enhanced as we migrate to the inet platform. the nasdaq market center systems are located in a processing complex in trumbull, connecticut. the systems have handled trade volume of over three billion shares daily and over 29,000 transactions per second and are designed to maximize transaction reliability and network security across each of the most critical system services that comprise the nasdaq stock market. in addition, our systems have the ability to handle increased capacity. to maximize reliability, we have developed a backup system in the event the primary systems are unable to perform. 13 table of contents market data from our quote and trade execution systems are transferred via high-speed communications links to a market data repository and are available for real-time analysis, historical analysis, market surveillance and regulation, and data mining. the information is provided to applications and users through relational database, higher-level access facilities and internet applications. competition the equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of our markets, the quality of our value-added customer services, reputation and price. we operate our business to emphasize efficiency, flexibility and service to our customers and the investing public. we became fully demutualized in 2000-2001 to reduce conflicts between the interest of our trading participants and the decisions affecting our businesses. as part of the demutualization, nasd remained our regulator. we believe that having an established, fully independent and non-profit regulator enhances the transparency of our markets and is a competitive advantage. nasd will continue as our regulator on a contract basis once we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange. our acquisition of inet and the merger between nyse and archipelago are causing significant changes to the competitive landscape. in contrast to nasdaq, the nyse was structured historically as a mutual non-profit organization relying on a predominantly manual market structure. the nyse now has converted from mutual ownership to stockholder ownership in connection with its acquisition of archipelago ecn. the combined nyse-arca has announced plans to transition to a hybrid system, which is expected to incorporate certain elements of an electronic system while retaining many elements of a traditional trading floor and continuing to operate archipelago as a third trading system. with the nasdaq-instinet and nyse-arca transactions completed, the original wave of ecns have been acquired. the marketplace is now being altered by the entry of new ecns that focus primarily on the trade execution business and market participants acquisition and investment in existing ecns or regional exchanges. for example, tradebot is developing the better alternative trading system, or bats ecn. citigroup recently announced its acquisition of ontrade, inc. from nextrade, and knight capital group, inc. acquired attain (direct edge). citadel derivatives group, citigroup, credit suisse, merrill lynch, morgan stanley and ubs purchased stakes in the philadelphia stock exchange. citigroup, credit suisse, fidelity and lehman brothers invested in the boston stock exchange to create a new electronic stock exchange, the boston equities exchange. additional new entrants may emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. although most of the new entrants have limited liquidity, some possess sufficient levels of equity order volume from their other business lines, particularly those that have broker-dealer investors. in addition, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. acquisition strategy. we have grown our business through acquisitions in 2004 and 2005. our strategy for acquisitions is to identify and acquire only those elements that are most important to our success. we integrated the key components of the brut technology and the brut team into nasdaq in 2005. our integration of inet is well underway, and we expect to begin migrating our customers to the inet platform in the third quarter of 2006, with a full integration to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006. also consistent with this focused approach, we acquired carpenter moore and shareholder.com to meet specific needs of our listed companies and other customers. additionally, we entered into a joint venture with reuters to form independent research network, which will aggregate multiple, independent research providers to distribute equity research on behalf of under-covered companies. finally, we are currently expanding beyond equity securities and will offer options routing services to customers seeking to rationalize their connections to the markets. we regularly explore and evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances, including assessing rating agency and regulatory implications, among other things, both in the united states and abroad, some of which could be 14 table of contents material. we intend to pursue acquisitions and alliances with the objective of strengthening our current business and advancing our technology. in addition, we continue to evaluate implications of strategic transactions involving other industry participants both in the united states and abroad. as contemplated by our acquisition strategy, on march 9, 2006, we submitted a non-binding indication of interest to acquire the london stock exchange. on march 10, 2006, lse announced that it intended to continue with its previously announced share capital return plan and did not intend to pursue nasdaq proposal. in response, we announced our belief that the proposed transaction would represent an attractive offer for shareholders, listed companies and the trading community and would reflect unique benefits for lse which have not to date been proffered by other parties. while we will continue to explore and evaluate strategic opportunities, including acquisition of the lse, there can be no assurance whether we will enter into any such transactions and, if so, on what terms. see risk factors future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities. issuer services. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. we also compete, to a limited extent, with the amex for listing of smaller, less active companies. in addition, at least one regional exchange, the pacific exchange, together with archipelago, its exclusive equities trading facility, has indicated that it intends to expand its listings business. we expect the nyse-archipelago merger to increase competition for listings, particularly if the combined entity seeks to attract listings of smaller companies that have not historically qualified for listing on the nyse. financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. the source of this competition is not only large etf family sponsors, but also, increasingly, from other mutual fund sponsors originating etfs. likewise, the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of these products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which can be considered competitive with nasdaq indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the nasdaq-100 index and nasdaq composite index. we face competition among other investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market services. we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers during 2005, particularly our large-volume customers. in early 2006, in connection with our acquisition of inet, we adjusted our transaction fees to harmonize our pricing structure with inet, whose fees had been higher than ours. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. our revenues from the sale of market information products and services are also under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and nasd alternative display facility to quote and trade certain securities that are not listed on a national securities exchange, including nasdaq-listed securities. nasdaq utp plan entitles these exchanges and nasd alternate display facility to a share of utp plan tape fees, in proportion to such exchange share of trading as measured by share volume and number of trades. participants in the utp plan have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq market center. to remain competitive, nasdaq continuously evaluates and refines both programs. this process resulted in changes in our tiered pricing program and in our general revenue sharing program throughout 2005 and in early 2006. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. 15 table of contents we are also responding aggressively to competition by updating and innovating new data products to provide market participants with increased functionality and new and more extensive market information. regulation federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. self-regulatory organizations are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. nasd is an sro. until we are operational as a national securities exchange, we operate pursuant to delegated authority under nasd sro registration. this regulatory framework applies to our business in the following ways: regulation of the nasdaq stock market; and regulation of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. while we believe that regulation improves the quality of the nasdaq stock market and, therefore, our company, these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. any subsequent change in law or regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. sec and self-regulatory organization regulation. on january 13, 2006, the sec approved our application for registration as a national securities exchange. we believe that we will benefit from exchange registration for the following reasons: we will no longer have to share revenue from proprietary products with other exchanges that are currently part of a utp plan. nasd will no longer have voting control over us as a result of our redemption of the sole outstanding share of series d preferred stock for $1.00. we will be able to more clearly establish our separate identity and gain greater access to the capital markets to obtain financing, which will help us improve our operations and enhance our business. we will separate our regulated exchange activities from our other business operations through our adoption of a holding company corporate structure. we will not begin to operate as an exchange, however, until the following conditions are met: we must join five national market system plans. nasd must provide a collection and dissemination facility for collecting and disseminating quotations and trade reports for securities listed on exchanges other than nasdaq. we must join the intermarket surveillance group, a group of u.s. and foreign securities and futures exchanges that provides a framework for sharing information and coordination of regulatory efforts among its members. we must establish a framework for imposing fines on members, in lieu of commencing disciplinary proceedings, for designated rule violations. we must enter into an sec-approved agreement under exchange act rule 17d-2 with nasd which will allocate to nasd regulatory responsibility for enforcement of exchange rules. we must submit and receive sec approval of a fingerprinting plan to provide a framework for our members to submit fingerprints of their employees to the united states department of justice, as required by the exchange act. 16 table of contents we are in the process of satisfying these conditions, and we hope to become operational as an exchange during the second quarter of 2006. however, since some of these conditions require action by third parties and approval by the sec, we cannot assure you that we will meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange in that time frame. in particular, we note that in july 2005, nasd filed a proposal with the sec that would establish the trade reporting facility, or trf, for the purpose of collecting reports of transactions in nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities that are executed otherwise than on an exchange. the trf will be a facility of nasd operated by nasdaq and regulated exclusively by nasd, and will be available solely to nasd members. timely approval of this proposal by the sec would assist nasdaq and nasd in fulfilling several of the conditions described above, while delayed approval or adverse action may delay our ability to satisfy the conditions. several of our competitors have filed comments in opposition to the trf, and the proposal is still pending at the sec. see risk factors the sec approval of our application to operate a national securities exchange contains conditions that must be satisfied before we implement the order. additionally, we are in the process of converting to a holding company structure and have received stockholder approval to adopt this structure at the time when or before we begin operating as an exchange. our newly formed subsidiary, the nasdaq stock market llc, will hold the operations of the nasdaq stock market and our exchange license. once we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange, nasd regulation, inc., or nasdr, a wholly-owned subsidiary of nasd, will provide regulatory services of the same general type and scope to our subsidiary licensed as an exchange as are currently provided, which will preserve the regulatory separation currently in place. in addition, we will receive our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of nasd. as an sro, we will have our own rules pertaining to our members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by nasd. broker-dealers will be able to choose to become members of nasdaq, in addition to their other sro memberships, including membership in nasd. as the operator of a securities market or national securities exchange, virtually all facets of our operations are, and will be, subject to the sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act and we are subject to periodic and special examinations by the sec. we also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make certain records available to the sec for examination. section 19 of the exchange act provides that we must submit proposed changes to any of the sro rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules, to the sec. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. if the sec disapproves a proposal that we have submitted, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, we must file all proposals for a change in our pricing structure with the sec. until we satisfy the conditions specified by the sec to become operational as a national securities exchange, our authority to operate the nasdaq stock market is delegated to us pursuant to the delegation plan by nasd. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. 17 table of contents nasd is currently responsible for the regulation of the trading activity on the nasdaq stock market as well as segments of the over-the-counter market. nasdaq has a limited role in conducting real-time market monitoring through its marketwatch department. this department, among other things, monitors for trades whose prices are away from the current market and initiates trading halts as necessary. suspicious trading behavior discovered by marketwatch staff and all other nasdaq employees is referred to nasd for further investigation. nasd performs the surveillance and investigative functions for nasdaq. we will seek to preserve this regulatory separation once we satisfy the conditions specified by the sec to become operational as a national securities exchange. we have additional regulatory functions related to companies listed on the nasdaq stock market that are handled by our listing qualifications department. this department is responsible for maintaining a compliance-monitoring and enforcement program with respect to our requirements for initial and continued listing. companies that wish to list on the nasdaq stock market are required to satisfy a variety of quantitative and qualitative requirements to become listed and to continue to be listed, including all our corporate governance listing standards. companies that fail to maintain compliance with these requirements are subject to delisting. to provide regulatory transparency and assist issuers in maintaining compliance, our listing qualifications department provides written interpretations with respect to the application of our listing requirements and maintains a website providing interpretive guidance. when we transferred our own listing from the otcbb to the nasdaq national market in 2005, the sec approved special listing standards with respect to listing our common stock on the nasdaq stock market. these listing standards require periodic reporting of compliance to the sec and an annual compliance audit by an independent accounting firm. our failure to maintain compliance with these listing standards could result in our common stock being delisted from the nasdaq stock market. broker-dealer regulation. brut, llc, our broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. in addition, we acquired inet ats, inc. and island execution services, llc in connection with the inet acquisition which are also subject to regulation as registered broker-dealers. on february 1, 2006, inet ats, inc., the entity operating inet ecn, was merged into brut, with brut as the surviving entity. as a result, brut, llc currently operates the brut platform and the inet platform. brut, llc is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nyse, nasd, the pacific stock exchange and the national stock exchange. island execution services, llc is a member of the nasd and national stock exchange. the sec, nyse and nasd adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. nyse is brut current dea and the nasd is island execution services dea. a failure to comply with the sec request in a satisfactory manner may have adverse consequences and changing brut dea may entail additional regulatory costs. brut has received inquiries from nasd regarding compliance with brut obligations regarding short sales, firm quotes and other reporting and disclosure requirements, some of which relate to activity prior to nasdaq acquisition of brut. although we cannot currently estimate the amount of any potential fines or penalties, we do not believe they would be significant. 18 table of contents as registered broker-dealers subsidiaries, brut, llc, inet ats, inc. and island execution services, llc, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and nasd impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nasd rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and nasd for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2005, brut was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $6.7 million or $6.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. as of december 31, 2005, island execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $1.0 million and had total net capital of approximately $1.5 million or $0.5 million in excess of the minimum amount required. as of december 31, 2005, inet ats, inc. was required to maintain minimum net capital of $1.0 million and had a net capital deficiency of approximately $48.0 million. this deficiency was due to inet ats investment in a non-u.s. based money market fund that is not registered under the investment company act of 1940. accordingly, the balances in the fund are a non-allowable asset under sec rule 15c3-1, the net capital rule. inet ats provided hind-sight notice that the net capital was below the minimum amount required under the net capital rule. on february 8, 2006, the funds were redeemed and invested in a money market fund registered under the investment company act of 1940, which corrected the net capital deficiency position. no funds were lost and no customers suffered any loss. recent regulatory developments. regulation nms, which is scheduled to become effective in stages throughout 2006, has been one of the key drivers behind the changes in the execution services and market data businesses in the united states. the most significant provisions of regulation nms are order protection, referred to as the best price rule, and fair access. the best price rule requires exchanges and other trading centers to establish procedures designed to prevent the execution of trades at prices inferior to protected quotations displayed by other trading centers. many market centers have announced plans to adopt electronic trading capabilities, which nasdaq has had in place for many years. in particular, the nyse has announced its plans to transition to a hybrid system, which is expected to incorporate certain elements of an electronic system while retaining many elements of a traditional trading floor. as a result of the best price rule, market participants will be required to route order flow to market centers with the best execution performance, including liquidity, reliability and speed. we believe that nasdaq is well positioned to benefit from this provision of regulation nms, because we have long been a fully automated market and the inet acquisition provides an additional liquidity pool. this will increase the probability that nasdaq electronic trading system will display the best prices, and other exchanges will need to route their orders to nasdaq platform. we expect the best price rule will have a significant impact on the trading of securities, particularly non-nasdaq-listed securities. we believe that electronic trading will result in increased average daily trading volumes as trading becomes fully automated. under the best price rule, each exchange must interact with the market center offering the best price before it can execute a trade at an inferior price on its systems. we believe that regulation nms is likely to remove many of the delays and impediments to trading nyse- and amex-listed securities through nasdaq that exist under the current trade through rule of the intermarket trading system. accordingly, we have announced plans to withdraw, subject to sec approval, from the intermarket trading system upon implementation of regulation nms. we will rely instead upon faster private linkages with greater capacity to comply with the order protection and fair access rules. the fair access rule requires market centers to provide fair and non-discriminatory access to quotations, establishes a limit on access fees to harmonize the pricing of quotations across different trading centers and requires all exchanges to maintain written rules that prohibit their members from displaying quotations that lock 19 table of contents or cross automated quotations. we expect this rule will benefit nasdaq because we already have fast and reliable automated access into all market centers and the logic that will permit compliance with locking or crossing automatic quotations. in addition, while it is yet to be determined how this rule will affect market pricing, our fees are compliant with the rule. regulation nms also contains a market information rule that updates the requirements for consolidating, distributing and displaying market information. this rule amends the cta/cq and utp plans for disseminating market information to modify the formulas for allocating plan revenues and to broaden participation in plan governance. as we are an active quoting market as well as a trading market, we believe the changes in the market data revenue calculations, while difficult to predict and likely to differ across the two data plans, should have little negative impact. finally, the sub-penny rule prohibits market participants from displaying quotations in pricing increments smaller than a penny, with exceptions for quotes and orders priced at less than $1.00 per share. we do not expect any of these rules per-se to have a significant impact on nasdaq. the changes in the competitive landscape driven by these rules, however, have potentially far reaching and unforeseeable impacts on our businesses. the best price rule and the fair access rule will apply to a small group of stocks beginning june 29, 2006, with expected implementation for all securities currently required by august 31, 2006. the market information rule is scheduled to apply beginning september 1, 2006, and the sub-penny pricing rule took effect on january 31, 2006. the sec has recently announced that the future implementation dates may be delayed. in addition, the sec has recently proposed regulation al, a new regulation that would institute a set of rules for demutualized exchanges and securities associations that intend to list their own securities or those of an affiliate. if regulation al is adopted by the sec, we may have to alter our operation and business to comply with regulation al to the extent that regulation al supersedes our listing standards. the sec also proposed a separate regulation, known as regulation sro, simultaneously with regulation al, containing new rules regarding the governance of sros. the proposed new rules would, among other things: require a majority independent board for each sro and require the establishment of nominating, governance, audit, compensation and regulatory oversight committees of the board, all composed solely of independent directors; require separation of an sro regulatory functions from its market operations and other business interests; restrict ownership and voting levels of members of the sro that are broker-dealers to no more than 20%; and require that all regulatory fees, fines and penalties received be used to fund regulatory programs and not be made available for distribution to stockholders. finally, the sec published a concept release requesting public comment on the structure of the self-regulatory system, including alternative approaches to securities industry self-regulation. some of the approaches discussed by the sec in the release call for a single sro, or the universal regulator, that would be responsible for all rules, markets and members. under these models, all markets, both nasdaq and other exchanges, would be registered with the universal regulator and would not have any self-regulatory authority. other models discussed by the sec would significantly reduce or even eliminate securities industry self-regulation altogether. nasdaq ability to compete effectively in the future may be impacted by the provisions of regulation nms and regulation al, if approved by the sec, and any changes resulting from the sec concept release. 20 table of contents employees as of march 8, 2006, nasdaq had 917 employees. none of its employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. nasdaq considers its relations with its employees to be good. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us) and the address of that site is (http://www.sec.gov). our website is www.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information sec filings. regulatory contractual relationships with nasd and nasdr regulatory services agreement. pursuant to the delegation plan, nasdr provides us with regulatory services, including the regulation of trading activity on the nasdaq stock market and the surveillance and investigative functions of nasdaq. we do not have a formalized written agreement with nasdr for the performance of regulatory services prior to us operating as an exchange. we paid nasdr $41.7 million for 2005 and $45.6 million for 2004 for regulatory services provided pursuant to the delegation plan, versus $61.8 million in 2003. the reduction was due in part to changes in the nasd allocation of technology expenses. the decrease in 2005 was also due to the transfer of ownership of the otcbb to nasd which reduced the associated regulatory costs. we have entered into a regulatory services agreement under which nasdr would provide regulatory services to us for ten years commencing when we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange. since these conditions have not yet been satisfied, no services have been performed under this agreement. under the regulatory services agreement, the services provided will be of the same type and scope as are currently provided by nasdr to us under the delegation plan. each regulatory service is to be provided for a minimum of five years, then the parties may determine to terminate a particular service. the termination of a particular service will generally be based upon a review of pricing and the need for such services. under the agreement, nasdr will bill us a fee for each required service provided that it is based on nasdr direct and indirect costs plus a markup of six percent on compensation costs related to nasdr employees used to provide the services. any services other than those required by the agreement will be billed at cost, plus a mutually agreed upon markup. similar to the services nasdr currently provides us, under the regulatory services agreement, nasdr will: review and approve new member applications; perform automated surveillance of trading on the nasdaq stock market; review member firm compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to trading and market-making functions in the nasdaq stock market; investigate suspicious activity in quoting and trading on the nasdaq stock market; conduct examinations of member firms; 21 table of contents initiate the disciplinary process once it is determined that a potential violation of a federal securities law or rule, or an sro rule, may have occurred; and operate an arbitration program and a mediation program for the resolution of customer, member firm employee, and nasdaq member-to-member disputes. for further discussion of these agreements and our other related party transactions, see risk factors nasd will continue to maintain voting control over us until we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange and may have interests that are different from yours and, therefore, may make decisions that are adverse to your interests and item 13. certain relationships and related transactions. item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing nasdaq. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. if we do not integrate inet operations successfully, we may not realize the benefits we expect to derive from the acquisition. we paid $934.5 million in cash to acquire the inet ecn, subject to post-closing adjustments and have incurred significant costs in connection with the acquisition. as of december 31, 2005, these costs were $34.4 million. we are in the process of integrating inet business with ours, and we anticipate incurring between $60.0 million and $70.0 million of pre-tax charges in 2006, principally related to the inet acquisition as well and also related to our continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of our operations. the integration involves consolidating products, highly-complex technology, operations and administrative functions of two companies that previously operated separately. if we are unable to do this successfully, then we may not achieve the projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings of the transaction. key risks related to the integration include: timing. the integration could take longer than planned and be subject to unanticipated difficulties and expenses. any expenses could, particularly in the near term, offset or exceed the anticipated cost savings we expect to derive from the inet acquisition. technology. we are planning to migrate our existing trading systems to inet platform. we may face unforeseen difficulties in achieving the migration, which could impose additional obstacles to completing the migration and could result in adverse consequences to our operations or could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate. management diversion. the demand placed on the time of our management team in managing the inet integration may adversely affect the operation of our existing businesses. loss of business relationships. we may not be able to retain business relationships with suppliers and customers of inet. in particular, when we combine the books of the nasdaq market center, brut and inet, we may lose some of the business that we enjoyed when we operated the books separately. personnel losses. we may lose key inet personnel, including technology personnel. cultural changes. employees in the acquired organization may be resistant to change and may not adapt well to our corporate culture. 22 table of contents our high leverage limits our financial flexibility. we incurred $750.0 million of senior term loan debt, entered into a $75.0 million revolving credit facility, although we had not drawn down any proceeds under the revolving credit facility as of december 31, 2005, and issued $205.0 million of convertible notes to pay for our recent acquisition of inet, bringing our total debt as of december 31, 2005 to $1.192 billion. this significant leverage may: impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes; reduce funds available to us for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; and curtail our flexibility to respond to changing economic or competitive conditions or to make acquisitions. in addition, our credit facility covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate, and our convertible notes contain a covenant restricting our ability to incur senior debt. we may not be able keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing services and products, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. if the inet platform fails to work as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce, or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. in addition, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing business. we face significant competition in our listing business from other exchanges. historically, the nyse has been our largest competitor, and we have competed with them primarily for listings of larger domestic and international companies. however, with the nyse acquisition of archipelago, the competitive landscape is changing, and the merged exchange may seek listings of small to mid-size companies, in direct competition with our listing business. the nyse recently decreased its maximum annual listing fee by 50% from $1 million to $500,000, which is still significantly higher than, although more competitive with, our maximum annual fee of $75,000. also, it is likely that after the merger, archipelago will use the nyse brand to offer low-cost listings. if we are required to lower our listing fees in response, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from nasdaq to other venues. significant transfers could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. declines in the ipo market have an adverse effect on our revenues. stagnation or decline in the ipo market impacts the number of our new listings on the nasdaq stock market, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result of the decline in the ipo market from 2000-2002, our deferred revenues associated with those years will be lower than our recent deferred revenue associated with the years immediately preceding that period. our new ipo listings decreased from 148 in 2004 to 126 in 2005. 23 table of contents the sarbanes-oxley act, commonly known as sox, may dampen ipo activity. sox requires nasdaq and other u.s. markets and exchanges to impose corporate governance requirements on all listed companies. additionally, section 404 of sox requires all of our listed companies to complete an internal control audit, which many companies find to be burdensome and costly. sox has particularly received a significant amount of focus among international companies. international exchanges, such as the london stock exchange, and deutsche b&ouml;rse are not required to impose these requirements on their listed companies and, as a result, are becoming more significant competitors, particularly for international issuers. the lse aim market, which has minimal listing standards, has recently received significant attention as an alternative listing venue. we may have trouble attracting and maintaining listings of foreign based companies in light of this competition. losses in listings to a combined nyse and archipelago could cause a reduction in revenues in both our issuer services and market services segments. while the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease listing revenues for our issuer services segment, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from our market services segment, to the extent that we derive revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers securities. if the combined nyse/archipelago is successful in competing with us for our core listings, we would lose not only the listing fees associated with those companies, but also a substantial amount of the trade execution fees generated by trading in those companies securities. delistings may have an adverse effect on our revenues. delistings generally increase under poor economic conditions, since issuers are not able to comply with our minimum bid price, market capitalization and/or shareholders equity requirements. companies are also delisted when they cannot file their periodic reports with the sec on time. during 2005, 85 companies were delisted for non-compliance with one or more of these requirements and 247 companies voluntarily delisted primarily due to mergers, going private transactions, or changing listing venues. in addition, the sec has recently proposed new rules which will make it easier for foreign private issuers to delist and stop being u.s. reporting companies. significant delistings would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. a decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. weak economic conditions or a reduction in securities prices could result in a decline in trading volume. a decline in trading volume would lower revenues from our market services segment and may adversely affect our operating results. we are particularly affected by declines in trading volume in technology-related securities because a significant portion of our customers trade in these types of securities and approximately 24% of the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market are in the technology sector. in addition, investor confidence and trader interest, and thus trading volume, can be affected by factors outside our control, such as the publicity surrounding investigations and prosecutions for corporate governance or accounting irregularities at public companies. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume. our revenue, margins and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, making them difficult to predict. these difficulties are particularly exacerbated in light of our acquisition of inet and the uncertainties surrounding the benefits and costs associated with integration. additionally, since our senior term loan debt bears interest at a variable rate and we do not have interest rate 24 table of contents hedges in place on this debt, any increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than our variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly. our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both gross margins and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. we must control our costs to remain profitable. we base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. a decline in this demand for our products and services may reduce our revenues without a corresponding decline in our expenses since we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. our ability to manage our costs will be particularly challenging as a result of inet acquisition and integration efforts. failure to achieve our goals on cost savings will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may fail in our initiatives to increase our business. we also may not have adequately positioned ourselves in the increasingly competitive securities markets or a weakened equities market. the separation of instinet institutional brokerage business from instinet and the related sale to an affiliate of silver lake partners could result in unexpected costs. in connection with our acquisition of instinet, we concurrently sold instinet institutional brokerage business and specified instinet corporate-level assets to instinet holdings incorporated, or instinet holdings, an affiliate of slp. instinet holdings agreed to assume the liabilities of the institutional brokerage business, as well as the additional corporate-level liabilities not directly related to the institutional brokerage business, such as tax, severance, real estate leases and historical restructuring obligations. we may be subject to claims related to these assets. in addition, we may be subject to claims arising from instinet institutional brokerage business. under the terms of the institutional brokerage transaction agreement, instinet holdings agreed to indemnify us after the closing for liabilities primarily related to the businesses, assets and liabilities that it purchased, and, similarly, we have agreed to indemnify instinet holdings after the closing for liabilities primarily related to inet. our ability to seek indemnification from instinet holdings is, however, limited by the strength of instinet holdings own financial condition, which could change in the future. instinet holdings may not have the ability to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us in connection with the institutional brokerage acquisition, in which case, we may be liable for these claims. these liabilities could be significant, and if we are unable to enforce the institutional brokerage indemnification obligation, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results. we compete for trading of nasdaq-, nyse- and amex-listed securities. any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report trades through exchanges, ecns or the alternative display facility maintained by nasd, could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through the nasdaq market center. while we trade a fairly large percentage of securities of nasdaq-listed companies, we face strong competition from exchanges and emerging players in the market. for non-nasdaq-listed securities, the national exchanges offer greater liquidity in more non-nasdaq-listed securities than we do. accordingly, we face major obstacles in trying to attract trading volume in non-nasdaq-listed securities. 25 table of contents our responses to competition may not be sufficient to regain lost business or prevent other market participants from shifting some of their quoting and/or trade reporting to other industry participants. we may need to reduce prices to remain competitive. our inability to compete for transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. the merger of nyse and archipelago will create a strong competitor. the recent merger of nyse and archipelago will create strong competition for us, particularly if nyse is able to create its own electronic trading platform or migrate its trading business to archipelago platform. nyse has stated that it intends to develop electronic trading capabilities that will compete directly with nasdaq s. in addition, the merger with archipelago has given nyse access to arcaex electronic systems. if nyse trading volume increases to our detriment as a result of the merger with archipelago, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. new competitors could reduce our revenues and impact our ability to increase our market share of transactions in nasdaq-listed and exchange-listed securities. it is possible that the nasdaq/inet acquisition and the nyse/archipelago merger will create demand for new or expanded trading venues. for example, knight capital group, inc., a market maker in nasdaq-listed securities, recently announced the acquisition of attain ecn, a competitor of ours. tradebot systems recently announced the establishment of bats ecn, which it indicated would be operational early in 2006. citigroup inc. recently announced plans to launch its own electronic stock-trading network from its acquisition of ontrade inc., an ecn previously operated by nextrade holdings inc. we believe regulation nms may enhance competition in nasdaq-listed securities from these or other new competitors. additionally, new ecns may develop trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. finally, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform, which may divert trading volume from the nasdaq market center. if these or other trading venues are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices and increased rebates to attempt to gain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt our operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by our competitors, which have adversely impacted our operating results. price competition with respect to market data rebates or our program relating to sharing revenues associated with trading nasdaq-listed securities could attract trading volume away from us, leading to loss of market share and decreased revenues. system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our business depends on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting it. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. we have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays, especially as we implement new systems associated with the inet migration. 26 table of contents we use internally developed systems to operate our business, including transaction processing systems to accommodate increased capacity. if our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing, or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. we have active and aggressive programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. although we currently maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. the adoption and implementation of regulation nms by the sec could adversely affect our business. on april 6, 2005, the sec adopted regulation nms, which has four primary components: the order protection rule, the access rule, the market data rule and the sub-penny rule. we may incur technological and other costs in changing our systems and operations so that we can comply with these rules. additionally, the impact of regulation nms is hard to predict and there may be problems or competitive challenges that we do not foresee that adversely affect our business as regulation nms is implemented. finally, there is also a risk that the rules may materially change during implementation which would undermine business plans and investments that have been made based on the current form of the rules. our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for financial products. we have grown our financial products business, which creates indexes and licenses them for nasdaq-branded financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors financial products designed to replicate or correlate with the performance of nasdaq financial products. in addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing of these financial products, may change in a manner which adversely impacts our ability to successfully license our products. further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce products that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial conditions and operating results. we must continue to invest in our operations to integrate inet and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds to support our business. in addition to our debt service obligations, we will need to make substantial investments in our operations on a continuing basis during 2006 to integrate the inet acquisition. if our current level of operating results decrease, our need to spend cash to service debt payments may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate inet. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. we believe that our current capital requirements will be met from internally generated funds and cash on hand. however, based upon a variety of factors, some of which are not within our control, our ability to fund our capital requirements may vary from those currently planned. should we raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our current debt instruments. furthermore, if we issue additional equity our equity holders may suffer dilution. there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available on a timely basis, or on favorable terms or at all. 27 table of contents future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities. in the future we may seek to grow our company by making additional acquisitions or entering into partnerships and joint ventures, which may be material. as contemplated by this strategy, we have submitted a non-binding indication of interest to acquire the lse, although the lse announced that it intended to continue with its previously announced share capital return plan and did not intend to pursue nasdaq proposal. in response, we announced our belief that the proposed transaction would represent an attractive offer for shareholders, listed companies and the trading community and would reflect unique benefits for lse which have not to date been proffered by other parties. in light of the substantial amount of consideration reflected in our non-binding proposal, completion of the acquisition of the lse would require significant financing. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing stockholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt resulted in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. additionally, acquisitions, partnerships or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. these equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. we operate in a highly regulated industry. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to a number of recent developments and inquiries. any of these factors or events may result in future regulatory or other changes, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. our customers also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use the nasdaq market center or could adversely affect the nasdaq stock market. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on the nasdaq stock market as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to extensive regulation that may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities. under current federal securities laws, changes in our rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed, and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay the initiation of the public 28 table of contents comment process or the approval process. this delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with ecns that are not subject to the same sec approval process, but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation services. in addition, brut and some subsidiaries of inet are broker-dealers. broker-dealers are subject to regulations that did not apply to us before the brut acquisition. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. brut is currently the subject of an investigation by the nasd. an adverse outcome may result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions on brut. we have self-regulatory organization obligations and also operate a for-profit business, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on the nasdaq stock market and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our market by market participants and nasdaq-listed companies. the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. while we outsource the majority of our market regulation functions to nasd, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our market. in addition, as part of our application for exchange registration, we have agreed that 20% of the directors of our exchange subsidiary will be elected by members of our exchange rather than the equity holders of our subsidiary. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our market or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 40 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our key employees who execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our president and chief executive officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of our executive officers, which would prevent them from leaving and competing with us. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from that loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may incur costs to replace key employees that leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. 29 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities laws liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. while we enjoy immunity from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, we and our broker-dealer affiliates could be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and other regulatory agencies. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, or claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us or our affiliates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, we are subject to oversight by the sec. the sec regularly examines us and our broker-dealer affiliates for compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under those laws, we or our broker-dealer affiliates could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. we are in the process of becoming a holding company that will depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. at our 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, our voting securityholders approved our reorganization into a new holding company structure through the transfer of all or substantially all of our assets and liabilities to one or more of our subsidiaries. this restructuring facilitated sec approval of our registration as a national securities exchange. once we affect this restructuring, we will be a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. accordingly, all our operations will be conducted by our subsidiaries. as a holding company, we will require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to pay dividends or satisfy our obligations. nasd will continue to maintain voting control over us until we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange and may have interests that are different from yours and, therefore, may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. the sec requires that nasd retain greater than 50% of the voting control over us until we operate as an exchange and no longer rely on nasd sro license to operate the nasdaq stock market. nasd maintains voting control through the single outstanding share of our series d preferred stock. therefore, nasd will continue to retain voting control over us until we meet sec conditions to operate as an exchange. as a result, until such time, nasd will continue to have the ability, if it so elects, to dictate the outcome of matters brought to a vote of our stockholders. nasd may have interests that conflict with the interests of holders of our common stock. nasd voting control may delay or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us or result in actions that may be opposed by other stockholders. the sec approval of our application to operate a national securities exchange contains conditions that must be satisfied before we implement the order. on january 13, 2006, the sec approved our application to register a newly formed limited liability company, the nasdaq stock market llc, as an exchange. the sec approval order contains several conditions that must be satisfied before we can operate as an exchange, some of which are subject to sec approval or the actions of third parties. the primary condition imposed by the sec requires us to become a participant in national market system plans. we will need to pay amounts, which have not yet been determined, but which may be significant, in order to join these plans. additionally, we may need to adjust our business practices to join these plans in a manner that will impose costs on us. 30 table of contents other conditions require nasd to offer a facility for disseminating over-the-counter quotations and collecting over-the-counter trade reports, for non-nasdaq-listed securities. satisfaction of this condition is dependent on, among other things, nasd ability to obtain the approval of the participants in certain of the national market system plans for this facility. we continue to rely on nasd sro license to operate the nasdaq stock market and all actions taken by us pursuant to authority delegated by nasd are subject to review, ratification or rejection by nasd board of governors. volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace, including with respect to the nyse/archipelago merger; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales by our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using our equity securities. as of march 8, 2006, there were 92,490,271 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our outstanding shares are freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, and 14,201,625 shares of common stock acquired or able to be acquired from nasd upon exercise of warrants issued by nasd, or the warrant shares. the warrant share are held by current and former nasd members. the warrant shares are not currently registered under the securities act and are transferable only to the extent permitted by securities laws, such as rule 144. we plan to provide for the sale of the remaining warrant shares by filing a prospectus supplement with the sec no later than may 2006. upon the filing of the prospectus supplement, holders of these warrant shares will be able to freely transfer these shares. if any of the warrants expire without being exercised, then we expect nasd would be able to sell the underlying shares under the prospectus supplement. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 5,316,755 options exercisable as of december 31, 2005 at a weighted average exercise price of $10.30. the number of shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our convertible notes held by slp and hellman &amp; friedman or their respective affiliates, which are convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 30.7 million shares of our common stock, or any exercise of our warrants held by slp and hellman &amp; friedman or their respective affiliates, which are exercisable at a price of $14.50 per share into approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock. the notes and the shares underlying the notes and the warrants are not transferable without our consent until september 8, 2006. in addition, the notes and the shares underlying the notes and the warrants may only be sold pursuant to a 31 table of contents registration statement, prospectus supplement or an exemption from registration. we have granted slp and hellman &amp; friedman and their affiliates demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to the convertible notes and the shares of our common stock underlying those notes and warrants. these shares become entitled to the benefits of such registration rights as early as september 2006. upon the effectiveness of such a registration, all shares or notes covered by a registration statement will be freely transferable. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and approved exchange rules, including provisions included to address sec concerns, and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter, other than nasd or any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. the sec has proposed rules that will impose voting and ownership limitations on broker-dealers of 20%, but not require other voting or ownership limitations. we have not determined at this time if we will seek to raise our 5% voting limitation if the sec adopts the proposed rule. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, our approved exchange rules include a rule prohibiting any nasdaq member or any person associated with a nasdaq member beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. exchange rules will also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. in addition, our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and constitution (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, that could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, or dgcl, imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 22 risk factors in this form 10-k. 3 table of contents forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: 2007 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the effective dates for and expected benefits of ongoing initiatives; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading volume or listed companies; our ability to implement our strategic initiatives and any consequences from our pursuit of our corporate strategy; competition, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate risk; government and industry regulation; or adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. part i item 1. business. nasdaq overview the nasdaq stock market, inc. is a holding company that operates the nasdaq stock market llc as its wholly-owned subsidiary. nasdaq became a holding company on august 1, 2006 when the nasdaq stock market commenced operations as a registered national securities exchange for nasdaq-listed securities. we, through our subsidiaries, are a leading provider of securities listing, trading, and information products and services. our revenue sources are diverse and include revenues from transaction services, market data 4 table of contents products and services, listing fees, insurance products, shareholder and newswire services and financial products. the nasdaq stock market is the largest electronic equity securities market in the united states, both in terms of number of listed companies and traded share volume. as of december 31, 2006, the nasdaq stock market was home to approximately 3,193 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of over $4.1 trillion. we also operate, through the exchange subsidiary, the nasdaq market center, which provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market and other national securities exchanges. transactions involving 580.9 billion equity securities were executed on or reported to our systems in 2006, 59.9% higher than the 363.3 billion in 2005. we manage, operate and provide our products and services in two business segments, our market services segment and issuer services segment. market services . our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. the nasdaq market center is our transaction-based platform that provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes, enabling our customers to execute trades in over 7,700 equity securities (including exchange traded funds, or etfs) during 2006. the nasdaq market center allows us to route and execute buy and sell orders as well as report transactions for nasdaq-listed securities and those securities listed on other national securities exchanges, providing fee-based revenues. we also generate revenues by providing varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. our systems enable vendors to gain direct access to our detailed order data, index information, mutual fund pricing information, and corporate action information on nasdaq-listed securities. for the year ended december 31, 2006, market services revenues were $1,408.3 million, which represented 84.9% of nasdaq total revenues. market services gross margin (total revenues less cost of revenues) was $437.9 million, which represented 63.7% of total gross margin. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. issuer services . our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder and newswire services and our financial products business. the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including information technology, financial services, healthcare, consumer products and industrials. we also develop and license financial products and associated derivatives based on nasdaq indexes. these include the qqq, which is an etf based on the nasdaq-100 index. in 2006, the qqq was one of the most actively traded etfs in the world and the most actively traded listed security in the united states. we have also introduced financial products based on other nasdaq indexes, including the nasdaq composite index and the nasdaq biotechnology index. in addition, we generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. for the year ended december 31, 2006, issuer services accounted for revenues of $249.0 million, which represented 15.1% of our total revenues and 36.3% of our gross margin. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. lse investment. we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary nightingale acquisition limited, or nal, hold an investment in the london stock exchange group plc, or the lse, totaling approximately 28.8% of the issued ordinary share capital of the lse. we acquired these shares from lse shareholders in a series of purchases beginning in april 2006. in march 9, 2006, we submitted a non-binding indication of interest to acquire the lse which was rejected by the board of lse. in november 2006, we announced the terms of final offers to acquire all of the ordinary share capital of lse not already owned by nal at a price of 1,243 pence per share and all of the b share capital of lse at a price of 200 pence (plus accrued dividend) per share. these final offers lapsed on february 10, 2007. 5 table of contents we continue to explore and evaluate strategic opportunities in the global markets to build on our existing position as the largest electronic equities exchange in the united states. we have a highly disciplined approach to acquisitions and will only consummate transactions to the extent they deliver clear and visible benefits for our shareholders, and enable us to allocate benefits to market participants. see acquisition strategy and risk factors futures acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities . integration of inet. we recently completed the integration of nasdaq legacy execution system and the brut and inet execution systems onto a single platform. in october 2006, we migrated all trading in nasdaq-listed securities to the inet platform, and all non-nasdaq-listed securities trading on the brut platform to inet platform in november 2006. the final aspect of our system integration the transfer of non-nasdaq-listed securities from nasdaq legacy execution system to the inet platform was implemented in february 2007. we believe that our system integration provides the foundation for improved execution quality and speed, while maintaining key attributes of the nasdaq market center, including market making functionality, attributed quotes, and the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. exchange registration . we began operating as a national securities exchange for nasdaq-listed securities on august 1, 2006 and a national securities exchange for non-nasdaq listed securities on february 12, 2007, simultaneous with the integration of our trading systems for these securities. exchange registration gives us our own self regulatory organization, or sro, license, allows us to operate independently of national association of securities dealers, inc., or nasd, and provides benefits to our proprietary data business and our corporate governance structure. to facilitate our operations as a national securities exchange, we formed the trade reporting facility llc, or the trf, a wholly-owned subsidiary. through the trf we continue to collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchange. nasd regulates the trf as one of its facilities. the trf began operating on august 1, 2006 for nasdaq-listed securities and will begin operating in march 2007 for non-nasdaq-listed securities. nasdaq history and structure we were founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of nasd, which operates subject to the oversight of the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec. beginning in 2000, nasd restructured and broadened our ownership through a two-phase private placement of our securities. securities in the private placements were offered to all nasd members, as well as some investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with the restructuring, on november 9, 2000, we applied to the sec for registration as a national securities exchange. the sec approved our application on january 13, 2006, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. prior to the satisfaction of the conditions to exchange registration, the nasdaq stock market operated under a delegation plan approved by the sec that provided a delegation of legal authority from nasd to us to operate as a stock market. although we exercised primary responsibility for market-related functions, including market-related rulemaking and interpretations, all actions taken pursuant to authority by nasd were subject to review, ratification, or rejection by the nasd board of directors. the exchange began operating as a registered national securities exchange for nasdaq-listed securities in august 2006 and as an exchange for non-nasdaq-listed securities in february 2007, simultaneous with the integration of our trading systems for these securities. the trf also began operating in august 2006 for nasdaq-listed securities and will begin operating in march 2007 for non-nasdaq-listed securities. on december 20, 2006, we ceased to be a subsidiary of nasd. nasd maintained voting control over us through its ownership of the one outstanding share of our series d preferred stock and nasd consolidated our 6 table of contents financial position and results of operations in its consolidated financial statements. in connection with the exchange entering into a transitional regulatory services agreement with nasd and the submission to the sec of a related filing by nasd, nasdaq was removed as a party to the delegation plan and nasdaq redeemed the share of series d preferred stock that had been issued to nasd. the removal of nasdaq from the delegation plan was the final sec condition to the exchange beginning to operate as an exchange for trading of non-nasdaq-listed securities. nasd achieved full divestiture of ownership of our common stock with the sale of its remaining shares of our common stock in july 2006. in august 2006, we adopted a holding company structure in connection with our registration as a national securities exchange that had been approved by our stockholders in 2005. our newly formed subsidiary, the nasdaq stock market llc, holds the operations of the exchange and our exchange license. in november 2006, we completed an internal reorganization that resulted in the transfer of ownership of some of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, to our exchange subsidiary. with exchange registration, nasdaq received its own sro status through nasdaq exchange subsidiary separate from that of nasd. pursuant to securities laws, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. as an sro, the exchange has its own rules pertaining to its members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by nasd. broker-dealers may choose to become members of the exchange, in addition to their memberships with other sros, including nasd. see regulation. nasd continues to provide regulatory services to us. see regulatory contractual relationships with nasdr. products and services we operate in two segments: market services and issuer services. financial information about segments and geographic areas may be found in note 20, segments, to our consolidated financial statements. market services. our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. trade execution services . the nasdaq market center is our transaction-based platform that provides market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers operating as electronic communication networks, or ecns, registered securities exchanges and other broker-dealers. we provide these services for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, the nasdaq market center: provides a comprehensive display of the interest by our market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross and ipo cross. provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. our execution services generate revenues from: transaction execution charges, which are charges assessed on a per share basis to the party that accesses the liquidity provided by another market participant. in most circumstances, we credit a portion of the 7 table of contents per share execution charge as a rebate (presented as cost of revenues) to the market participant that provides the liquidity (liquidity is the number and range of buy and sell orders available to our market participants). these charges represent our primary fee for execution services. our share of tape fees for the trading of securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, and the american stock exchange, or amex. also, we pay fees to the sec pursuant to section 31 of the securities exchange act of 1934, or section 31 fees. these fees are recorded as execution and trade reporting revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. the section 31 fees are designed to recover the costs to the government of supervision and regulation of securities markets and securities professionals. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on the exchange and recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. section 31 fees received are included in cash at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as an accrued liability until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our gross margin or net income. to enhance market transparency, we introduced the opening cross and closing cross in 2004 and the halt cross and ipo cross in 2006. the opening cross is a process for pre-market open trading and price discovery consisting of a centralized order facility that provides market participants and investors with a highly transparent and accurate opening price in nasdaq-listed securities. similarly, the closing cross is a centralized order facility that provides an orderly market close for nasdaq-listed securities. the new ipo cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process to begin secondary trading of initial public offerings based on supply and demand. the halt cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process when we resume trading in market halted securities. a new pegged order type that allows the price of an order to be pegged to the mid-point of the national best bid and offer (nbbo) was introduced in january 2007. we also have announced plans to introduce the nasdaq crossing network, a new fully-anonymous trade execution facility designed to promote the execution of large trades, during the second quarter of 2007. the nasdaq crossing network will provide market participants and investors with a highly efficient and accurate single price at specific times during the trading day, resulting in the discovery of larger pools of liquidity while minimizing market impact and associated price movements. we recently completed our integration of the nasdaq market center and the brut and inet execution systems into a single platform. nasdaq system integration, which is based on the inet platform, is intended to provide improved execution quality and speed, while maintaining the attributes of the nasdaq market center, including market making functionality, attributed quotes, and the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. our system integration in nasdaq-listed securities was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the system integration in non-nasdaq-listed securities was completed in february 2007. we currently provide connectivity and order routing to options exchanges. in 2006, we announced plans to introduce an equity and index options market in 2007, pending approval from the sec. our options market will be designed to leverage our existing technology, which we acquired through the inet acquisition. in addition, we plan to leverage our current customer connectivity and market structure. we intend to design nasdaq options market to handle the options market transition from nickel and dime quoting increments to penny quoting increments. trade reporting services . all registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. we provide three primary revenue-generating reporting services: trade reporting trades executed on the nasdaq stock market are automatically reported by us under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, we do not charge market participants for reporting 8 table of contents most of these trades. we do, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the nasdaq unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities, under the consolidated tape plan, or cta plan, for nyse-listed securities and the consolidated quotation plan, or the cq plan, for amex- and regional exchange-listed securities. in addition, the trf collects trade reports as a facility of the nasd. a large percentage of these trades result from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and are submitted to the trf for reporting purposes only. the trf does not charge market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it does earn shared market information revenues with respect to the trades. trade comparison the trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the trf for reporting and clearing. risk management we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. access services to our trading platform . we provide our market participants with several alternatives for accessing the nasdaq market center for a fee. by shifting connectivity to the nasdaq market center from proprietary networks to third-party networks, we have significantly reduced our technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. the nasdaq market center may be accessed using our financial information exchange, or fix, product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, which enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to us. we also have developed qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates. market participants may also access the nasdaq market center using computer-to-computer interface, another protocol, which allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. finally, firms may use former inet protocols to access our single trading platform. as an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, nasdaq provides the new nasdaq workstation (nnw), an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. we also provide co-location services to our market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. we charge these participants fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. market information. we collect and provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public as part of our nasdaq market services subscriptions business. we collect information, distribute it and earn revenues as a member of the utp plan and as a distributor of our proprietary market data. we operate as the exclusive securities information processor as part of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of the best bid and offer information and last transaction information from the exchanges and markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. we are also a participant in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in our role as the securities information processor, we collect and disseminate quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to data vendors, which the data vendors then sell to the public. after deducting costs associated with acting as an exclusive securities information processor, we distribute the tape fees to the respective utp plan participants, including us, based on a combination of the participants respective annual trade volume and share volume. in addition, all nasdaq market center trades in exchange-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and amex-listed securities. 9 table of contents as a national securities exchange, since february 2006 we no longer have to share our revenues under the utp plan related to information about our individual market participants quotations. we are still required to share utp plan revenue related to trade reports and the best priced quotations in our market. our market participants have real-time access to quote and trade data. interested parties that are not direct market participants in the nasdaq stock market also can receive real-time quote and trade information beyond the best bid and offer quotes through a number of proprietary products that we offer. we use our broad distribution network of 1,436 market data vendors and market participants to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer a totalview enterprise license to facilitate broad based distribution of this data to large audiences. in 2006, our totalview professional subscribers increased by over 60% (excluding non-paying internal users and users via the nasdaq workstation product). in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq market analytix, launched in 2006, a suite of data products including nasdaq market forces and nasdaq velocity designed to provide market insights based on calculations performed on the data that is provided to nasdaq execution services; modelview, launched in 2005, a product designed to provide greater insight into the patterns of liquidity in the nasdaq market center; openview, launched in 2005, a product providing complete depth-of-book liquidity for the nasdaq market center in nyse- and amex-listed securities; orderview, launched in 2005, a market data feed that facilitates program and algorithmic trading; the mutual fund quotation service, a listing service for over 20,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; the mutual fund dissemination service, a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds listed with us; nasdaq index dissemination service, a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; nasdaq.com, a leading financial website for the investor community that generates revenues from advertising and product sales; and nasdaqtrader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data vendors with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as open, closing, halt and ipo crosses) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee. issuer services. our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder and newswire services and our financial products business. securities listings business . we operate our securities listings business as the corporate client group, which provides customer support services and products to nasdaq-listed companies and is responsible for obtaining new listings on the nasdaq stock market. more companies list on the nasdaq stock market than any other u.s. market. 10 table of contents the companies that list on the nasdaq stock market operate in diverse industries. the following chart shows the percentage of nasdaq-listed u.s. companies by industry as of december 31, 2006. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies undergoing ipos. in 2006, we attracted 67% of the ipos eligible for the nasdaq stock market or the nyse and 39% of the capital raised from these ipos. year ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market 137 126 148 percentage of initial public offerings on primary u.s. markets 67 % 59 % 61 % capital raised by initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market (in billions) $ 17.4 $ 12.3 $ 15.0 companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. in july 2006, we introduced a new listing tier for public companies called the nasdaq global select market. the nasdaq global select market has the highest initial listing standards in the world. in conjunction with the creation of the new tier, we renamed the nasdaq national market, the nasdaq global market. as a result, the nasdaq stock market currently has three tiers of listed companies: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards and issuers listing on these markets have the opportunity to leverage an array of nasdaq corporate services. as of december 31, 2006, 1,187 companies listed securities on the nasdaq global select market, 1,479 companies listed securities on the nasdaq global market and 527 companies listed securities on the nasdaq 11 table of contents capital market. during 2006, 285 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 19 listings on the nasdaq global select market and 216 on the nasdaq global market. during 2005, 269 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 227 listings on the nasdaq national market. in addition, we had 323 foreign companies listed on our markets in 2006, and 343 in 2005. after the initial listing, our corporate client group provides customer support services, products and programs to nasdaq-listed companies. to offer additional services to our listed companies, in 2005 we acquired carpenter moore and the remaining 50% interest in the nasdaq insurance agency, llc, independent insurance brokerage firms. in 2006, we acquired shareholder.com, a firm specializing in shareholder communications and investor relations intelligence services and primenewswire, a firm specializing in press release newswire and multimedia services. additionally, we participate in a joint venture with reuters called the independent research network which aggregates multiple, independent research providers to distribute equity research on behalf of under-covered companies. see note 3, business combinations to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in 2006, ual corporation, the parent company of united airlines, listed with the nasdaq stock market. additionally, liberty media corporation, innospec inc., computer task group, inc. and e*trade financial switched the listings of their securities from the nyse to nasdaq. furthermore, 30 companies switched their listing from the amex to the nasdaq stock market in 2006. we also have attracted listings from foreign companies seeking to access u.s. capital markets, including ctc media from russia and the grupo aeroportuario del centro norte, or oma, from mexico. since 2004, we have permitted nyse-listed issuers to dually list their stock on the nasdaq stock market. as of december 31, 2006, 10 companies dual listed securities on nasdaq and nyse. we continue to target companies about joining the dual-listing program. each year some companies cease listing with us for several reasons. in 2006, 303 companies ceased listing on the nasdaq stock market compared with 332 in 2005. companies cease listing for three primary reasons: failing to meet our listing standards, merger and acquisition activity and, to a lesser extent, switching to another listing venue. delistings of issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market during 2006 decreased by 9% compared with 2005. we charge issuers an initial listing fee, a listing of additional shares fee and an annual fee. the initial listing fee for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. the fee for listing of additional shares is based on the total shares outstanding, which we review quarterly. annual fees for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market are based on total shares outstanding. initial listing and listing of additional shares fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are six and four years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience, pursuant to the requirements of sec staff accounting bulletin topic 13: revenue recognition. in february 2007, the sec approved a new pricing structure for our annual listing fees. this new schedule generally increases the annual and listing of additional shares fees listed companies pay to us, as well as the initial listing fee to list on the nasdaq capital market. financial products business . we develop and license nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of nasdaq financial products. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on assets or number or underlying dollar value of contracts issued. in addition to generating licensing revenues for nasdaq, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. in 2006, we launched 16 new indexes and firms have launched eight new etfs on nasdaq indexes. 12 table of contents our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial companies listed on the nasdaq stock market. nasdaq indexes are the basis for over 500 financial products in over 35 countries. nasdaq licenses cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on its indexes as well as options and single stock futures on qqq. in addition to license fees, we are reimbursed by the qqq trust for marketing activities designed to promote the trust. in 2006, the qqq was one of the most actively traded etfs in the world and the most actively traded listed equity security in the united states. during 2006, the qqq average daily trading volume was 107.4 million shares and its average daily dollar volume was approximately $4.4 billion. during 2005, the qqq average daily trading volume was 90.4 million shares and its average daily dollar volume was approximately $3.5 billion. as of december 31, 2006, the qqq trust had issued approximately 416 million shares and assets under management had reached $18 billion. nasdaq financial products, through its portal market, facilitates the eligibility for clearing and settlement services at depository trust and clearing corporation, or dtcc, of portal/rule 144a securities. in 2006, we continued to facilitate the processing service for rule 144a eligible securities through portal with nearly 2,700 applications processed. in 2007, subject to sec approval, we plan to launch our portal trading system, a system allowing for online trading of securities pursuant to rule 144a. the portal market will then be a comprehensive offering including capital formation, trading, data and financial products. in october 2006, we announced an agreement with powershares capital management llc, or powershares, that will transfer the sponsorship functions including sales, marketing and administration of our qqq, eqqq and bldrs etfs. these transactions are expected to close by june 2007 pending approval by the sec and the irish financial services regulatory authority. we will maintain our status as licensor of the qqq and the eqqq etfs. nasdaq will continue to receive license fees from both these etfs as they are benchmarked against the nasdaq-100 index. the recent outcome of two court cases has impacted nasdaq ability to collect licensing revenues, beginning in the third quarter of 2006, for options on etfs that track our indexes (such as qqq). in september 2005, the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york dismissed actions brought by mcgraw-hill and dow jones against an options market that threatened to trade options on etfs based on their proprietary indexes without a license. this dismissal was affirmed by the united states court of appeals for the second circuit in june 2006. the second circuit ruled that markets, in facilitating the trading of options on etfs, are not misappropriating any intellectual property right of index providers. we are replacing this loss in revenues by continuing to develop, create, and license new indexes for financial instruments. fee changes we may change the pricing of our products and services in response to competitive pressures or changes in market or general economic conditions. pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, nasdaq must file all proposals for a change in its pricing structure with the sec. we provide updated information on the pricing of our products and services on our website at www.nasdaqtrader.com . see also competition and risk factors we face significant competition in our business. technology over the past five years, we have reduced our technology costs, consistent with our regulatory obligations, by migrating to fewer, less expensive technology platforms, introducing less expensive network solutions, and by reducing our workforce. our transaction speed throughput and system reliability has been enhanced by our migration to the inet platform. the nasdaq market center systems are located in a processing complex in our northeast data center. the systems have handled trade volume of over 3 billion shares daily and over 64,000 transactions per second and are 13 table of contents designed to maximize transaction reliability and network security across each of the most critical system services that comprise the nasdaq stock market. in addition, our systems have the ability to handle increased capacity. to maximize reliability, we have developed a backup system in the event the primary systems are unable to perform. market data from our quote and trade execution systems are transferred via high-speed communications links to a market data repository and are available for real-time analysis, historical analysis, market surveillance and regulation, and data mining. the information is provided to applications and users through relational databases, higher-level access facilities and internet applications. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for nasdaq-developed inventions and processes. we currently have six issued united states patents and approximately 70 pending applications, some of which also are filed in foreign jurisdictions. industry the equity exchange industry provides services, including securities listing, market information and trade execution, both in the united states and internationally. trade execution function. the principal market centers for buying and selling equity securities in the united states are the nasdaq stock market, other national securities exchanges, including the nyse and amex, the regional stock exchanges and ecns (sometimes referred to as alternative trading systems). these market centers employ different business models for displaying current bids, offers and orders for the purchase and sale of securities and for executing those bids, offers and orders against each other. unlike specialist-based auction markets, such as the nyse and amex, the nasdaq market center, our transaction-based electronic platform, is a fully computerized, screen-based system that links over 230 competing market makers who commit capital and buy inventory to sell to market participants from their own account. the average nasdaq-listed stock has over 24 market makers, who are required at all times to post their bid and offer prices into the nasdaq market center, where the bids and offers can be reviewed and accessed for automatic execution by all market participants. in addition, our system provides a mechanism for all market participants (i.e., both order entry firms and market makers) to post non-marketable limit orders and to access posted limit orders both for their own account and when representing their customers on an agency basis, further enhancing liquidity in the nasdaq market center. nasdaq-listed securities trade not just through the nasdaq market center, but also through other market centers such the amex, ecns and regional exchanges. currently, nasdaq-listed securities trade on several ecns and regional exchanges and are reported to amex, the chicago stock exchange, the chicago board options exchange, the boston stock exchange, the international securities exchange, the national stock exchange, nasd alternative display facility, nyse arca, the philadelphia stock exchange, and to trade reporting facilities operated by the national stock exchange and nasdaq under the regulatory oversight of the nasd. we also earn data revenues based on our share of trading securities listed on the nyse and amex via the nasdaq market center. the market centers other than nasdaq that execute and report trades in nyse-listed securities through the cta plan include the nyse, nyse arca, amex, the boston stock exchange, the chicago stock exchange, the chicago board options exchange, the national stock exchange, international securities 14 table of contents exchange and the philadelphia stock exchange. with the acquisition of inet, we are now the largest order flow provider to the floor of the nyse. we offer efficiencies in our business model that have enabled us recently to increase our trading volume in nyse-listed securities. competition among market centers for trading volume is intense because trading volume is highly portable, with broker-dealers systems enabling simultaneous access to liquidity across all venues and order routing to the destination offering the best price or execution service. market data function. nasdaq serves as a central consolidator of basic real-time quote and trade data for nasdaq-listed securities. we act jointly with other national securities exchanges to collect and disseminate a consolidated stream of quotation and transaction information under national market system plans approved by the sec, the cta plan or the cq plan, in the case of non-nasdaq-listed securities, and the utp plan, in the case of nasdaq-listed securities. the information collected under these national market system plans is sold for a fee to data vendors, who in turn sell the information to the public. these fees are referred to as tape fees. after costs are deducted, the tape fees are distributed among the participants in each of the national market system plans based on their transaction volume. some regional exchanges, such as the national stock exchange, have established programs to share the tape fee revenue they received under the utp plan with market participants that execute and/or report trades in securities through their facilities, in order to increase their share of tape fee revenue. nasdaq also implemented a program to share the tape fee revenue it earns from the utp, cta and cq plans. in addition to sharing revenue under the data plans, the exchange and the other registered national securities exchanges provide proprietary data to the investing public. because our systems are electronic and inclusive in nature, we are able to provide a level of market transparency to all investors that is only available to a small segment of the investing population in a floor-based or a hybrid model. regulation nms will change the method for sharing market data revenues under the plans. the changes will introduce a quote component to the sharing methodology. regulation nms also requires the creation of advisory committees composed of non-sro representatives to the data plans, and authorizes market centers to distribute their own trade data independently of the data plans. listing function. registered national securities exchanges provide a venue for issuers to list securities for trading. the nasdaq stock market and the nyse and, to a lesser extent, amex are the primary listing venues for equity securities in the united states. a total of 3,193 companies were listed on the nasdaq stock market as of december 31, 2006, compared to approximately 2,764 listed on nyse. there is substantial competition for listings from companies that are selling shares for the first time through an ipo. of the 206 ipos on u.s. equity markets during 2006, 137, or approximately 67%, chose to list on the nasdaq stock market, raising approximately $17.4 billion in equity capital. the remainder listed on the nyse or other markets. there is also substantial competition among the markets to encourage companies to switch listing venues or to list on more than one venue. in 2004, nasdaq implemented an initiative to allow companies to list their stock both on the exchange and the other markets. since announcing this dual-listing service, several high profile companies have dual-listed on the exchange, including american financial group, chicago mercantile exchange, harmony gold, and walgreens. in addition, during 2006, four nyse-listed companies switched their listing to nasdaq, including e*trade financial, liberty media corporation, innospec inc. and computer task group, inc. nasdaq also lists former nyse companies such as ual corporation and winn-dixie stores, inc. recent trends. the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. as a result, the competition among u.s.-based and non-u.s.-based markets and other execution venues has become more intense. the increased globalization of world markets also has increased the need for regulatory cooperation between markets in different jurisdictions. 15 table of contents in the last several years, the structure of the securities industry also has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. in response to growing competition, many marketplaces in the united states and globally have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. as exchanges have demutualized and become for-profit public companies, profitability has become a significant driving factor. for profit-exchanges have focused on achieving economies of scale, ever improving technology and greater profitability through acquisitions and investments in new businesses. broker-dealer investment in smaller regional exchanges as significant minority shareholders has been another consequence of demutualization. globally, broker-dealers are demanding greater efficiency in trading equity securities, new sophisticated order types, seamless trading across asset classes and markets, and ever better performance of trading platforms. powerful business and regulatory factors also are causing the significant reorganization and restructuring of the equity securities industry through acquisitions, mergers, investments, and new entry, particularly in the transactions services area. the securities industry also is experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. additionally, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions. at the same time, recent initiatives, including regulation nms, encourage a reappraisal of the business models of equity exchanges and alternative electronic trading systems. as the transactions services area has been undergoing significant transformation, registered national securities exchanges have been active in the reorganization of the industry. we acquired inet in december 2005 and brut in september 2004. in march 2006, the nyse acquired archipelago holdings, the parent of the pacific exchange and the archipelago ecn, and its acquisition of euronext is scheduled to be completed later this year. also, in 2006, the boston stock exchange created a new equities market, the boston equity exchange, in partnership with several large broker-dealers. the international securities exchange, historically a derivatives exchange, entered the cash-equities exchange business in september 2006. competition the equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in our industry against the nyse, amex, regional exchanges and ecns based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of our markets, the quality of our value-added customer services, reputation and price. the nyse has introduced a hybrid system, which incorporates certain elements of an electronic system while retaining many elements of a traditional trading floor and continues to operate archipelago as another trading system. in addition, the pending merger of nyse and euronext and the continuing trend toward global consolidation among the exchanges may be expected to result in competition on a more global scale. should the nyse merger with euronext be completed, the nyse has indicated that euronext nsc trading system might eventually replace both the nyse hybrid and archipelago trading systems. with the nasdaq-inet and nyse-arca transactions completed, the marketplace is now being altered by the entry of new ecns in the trade execution business and market participants acquisition and investment in existing ecns or regional exchanges. for example, tradebot launched the better alternative trading system, or bats ecn. citigroup announced its acquisition of ontrade, inc. from nextrade, and knight capital group, inc. acquired attain (direct edge). citadel derivatives group, citigroup, credit suisse, merrill lynch, morgan stanley and ubs purchased stakes in the philadelphia stock exchange. citigroup, credit suisse, fidelity and lehman brothers invested in the boston stock exchange to create a new electronic stock exchange, the boston equities exchange. additional new entrants may emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. while many of the new entrants have limited liquidity, some have attracted significant levels of equity order volume through aggressive pricing and, we believe, from volume originating with their broker-dealer investors. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. 16 table of contents also, other regional exchanges, such as the chicago stock exchange, inc., the national stock exchange and the international securities exchange have recently entered into investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges. equity securities trading. we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. our principal competitors for trading equity securities include nyse, amex, the regional exchanges and ecns. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers during 2005, particularly our large-volume customers. in early 2006, in connection with our acquisition of inet, we adjusted our transaction fees to harmonize our pricing structure with inet, whose fees had been higher than ours. in late 2006 the bats ecn announced a new pricing initiative featuring net negative execution fees which took effect in january 2007. in february 2007, we announced new equities pricing to harmonize the trading of nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities into one pricing schedule. also, we announced a pricing change, effective march 1, 2007, that will lower access and routing fees for high volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. data services. our revenues from the sale of market information products and services are also under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and nasd alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by the nasd are also operated by nasdaq and one regional exchange and are proposed by other exchanges. nasdaq utp plan entitles these exchanges, nasd alternate display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, in proportion to such exchange share of trading as measured by share volume and number of trades. participants in the utp plan have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq market center. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. we are also responding aggressively to competition by updating and innovating new data products to provide market participants with increased functionality and new and more extensive market information. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. we also compete, to a limited extent, with the amex for listing of smaller, less active companies. as result of the nyse-archipelago merger, the nyse group is aggressively pursuing listings of smaller companies that have not historically qualified for listing on the nyse for listing on its junior market. in addition, we face competition for listing of foreign companies. financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. the source of this competition is not only large etf family sponsors, but also, increasingly, other mutual fund sponsors originating etfs. likewise, the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of these financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which can be considered competitive with nasdaq indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the nasdaq-100 index and nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. 17 table of contents acquisition strategy we have grown our business through acquisitions in 2004, 2005 and 2006. our strategy for acquisitions is to identify and acquire only those elements that are most important to our success. we integrated the key components of the brut technology and the brut team into nasdaq in 2005 and recently completed the integration of inet and the migration of its customers to the inet platform. also consistent with this focused approach, we acquired carpenter moore, shareholder.com and primenewswire to meet specific needs of listed companies and other customers. additionally, we entered into a joint venture with reuters to form independent research network, which aggregates multiple, independent research providers to distribute equity research on behalf of under-covered companies. we regularly explore and evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances, including assessing rating agency and regulatory implications, among other things, both in the united states and abroad, some of which could be material. we intend to pursue acquisitions and alliances with the objective of strengthening our current business and advancing our technology. in addition, we continue to evaluate implications of strategic transactions involving other industry participants both in the united states and abroad. regulation federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. the exchange is an sro. self-regulatory organizations, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our business in the following ways: regulation of the nasdaq stock market; and regulation of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. while we believe that regulation improves the quality of the nasdaq stock market and, therefore, our company, these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. any subsequent change in law or regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. sec and self-regulatory organization regulation. with exchange registration, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of nasd. as an sro, we have our own rules pertaining to our members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by nasd. broker-dealers may choose to become members of the exchange, in addition to their other sro memberships, including membership in nasd. as the operator of a national securities exchange, virtually all facets of our operations are subject to the sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, and we are subject to periodic and special examinations by the sec. we also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make certain records available to the sec for examination. 18 table of contents section 19 of the exchange act provides that we must submit proposed changes to any of the sro rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules, to the sec. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. if the sec disapproves a proposal that we have submitted, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, we must file all proposals for a change in our pricing structure with the sec. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. we sought to preserve a regulatory separation upon operation as a national securities exchange. nasd regulation, inc., or nasdr, a wholly-owned subsidiary of nasd, provides regulatory services to the exchange, including the regulation of trading activity on the nasdaq stock market and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring through our marketwatch department. this department, among other things, monitors for trades whose prices are away from the current market and initiates trading halts as necessary. suspicious trading behavior discovered by marketwatch staff and all other nasdaq employees is referred to nasd for further investigation. nasd performs the surveillance and investigative functions for nasdaq. we have preserved this regulatory separation now that we are operational as a national securities exchange. we have additional regulatory functions related to companies listed on the nasdaq stock market that are handled by our listing qualifications department. this department is responsible for maintaining a compliance-monitoring and enforcement program with respect to our requirements for initial and continued listing. companies that wish to list on the nasdaq stock market are required to satisfy a variety of quantitative and qualitative requirements to become listed and to continue to be listed, including all our corporate governance listing standards. companies that fail to maintain compliance with these requirements are subject to delisting. to provide regulatory transparency and assist issuers in maintaining compliance, our listing qualifications department provides written interpretations with respect to the application of our listing requirements and maintains a website providing interpretive guidance. when we transferred our own listing from the otc bulletin board, or otcbb, to the nasdaq national market in 2005, the sec approved special listing standards with respect to listing our common stock on the nasdaq stock market. these listing standards require periodic reporting of compliance to the sec and an annual compliance audit by an independent accounting firm. our failure to maintain compliance with these listing standards could result in our common stock being delisted from the nasdaq stock market. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. we acquired three broker-dealers, brut, llc, inet ats, inc. and island execution services, llc, in connection with recent acquisitions. in february 2006, inet ats, inc., the entity operating inet ecn, was merged into brut, llc, with brut, llc as the surviving entity. subsequently, brut, llc was renamed nasdaq execution services, llc. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq market center to other venues for execution. in 2006, island execution services, llc was renamed nasdaq options services, llc. nasdaq options services currently has no trading operations. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nyse, nasd, american stock exchange, boston stock 19 table of contents exchange, chicago stock exchange, international securities exchange, pacific stock exchange, philadelphia stock exchange and the national stock exchange. nasdaq options services is a member of the nasd and the national stock exchange. the sec, nyse and nasd adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. nyse is nasdaq execution services current dea and the nasd is nasdaq options services dea. a failure to comply with the sec request in a satisfactory manner may have adverse consequences and changing nasdaq execution services dea may entail additional regulatory costs. in august 2006, nasdaq execution services settled a regulatory matter with nasd regarding compliance with nasdaq execution services obligations regarding short sales, firm quotes and other reporting and disclosure requirements. nasdaq execution services paid a fine of $2.2 million to nasd. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and nasd impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nasd rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and nasd for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2006, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $38.4 million, or $38.1 million in excess of the minimum amount required. as of december 31, 2006, nasdaq options services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $1.7 million, or $1.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. regulation nms. regulation nms, which was adopted in 2005 and is scheduled to be fully implemented in 2007, has been one of the key drivers behind the changes in the execution services and market data businesses in the united states. the most significant provisions of regulation nms are order protection, referred to as the best price rule, and fair access. the best price rule requires exchanges and other trading centers to establish procedures designed to prevent the execution of trades at prices inferior to protected quotations displayed by other trading centers. many market centers have announced plans to adopt electronic trading capabilities, which nasdaq has had in place for many years. in particular, the nyse has implemented the hybrid system, which incorporates some elements of an electronic system while retaining many elements of a traditional trading floor. as a result of the best price rule, market participants will be required to route order flow to market centers with the best execution performance, including liquidity, reliability and speed. we believe that nasdaq is well positioned to benefit from this provision of regulation nms, because we have long been a fully automated market and have a deep liquidity pool. we expect the best price rule will have a significant impact on the trading of securities, particularly non-nasdaq-listed securities. electronic trading is expected to result in increased average daily trading volumes as trading becomes fully automated . 20 table of contents under the best price rule, each exchange must interact with the market center offering the best price before it can execute a trade at an inferior price on its systems. we believe that regulation nms is likely to remove many of the delays and impediments to trading nyse- and amex-listed securities through nasdaq that existed under the trade through rule of the intermarket trading system. accordingly, we withdrew from the intermarket trading system in 2006. we will rely instead upon faster private linkages with greater capacity to comply with the order protection and fair access rules. the fair access rule requires market centers to provide fair and non-discriminatory access to quotations, establishes a limit on access fees to harmonize the pricing of quotations across different trading centers and requires all exchanges to maintain written rules that prohibit their members from displaying quotations that lock or cross automated quotations. we expect this rule will benefit nasdaq because we have fast and reliable automated access into all market centers and a system that will permit compliance with the rules regarding the locking or crossing automatic quotations. regulation nms also contains a market information rule that updates the requirements for consolidating, distributing and displaying market information. this rule amends the cta, cq and utp plans for disseminating market information to modify the formulas for allocating plan revenues and to broaden participation in plan governance. finally, the sub-penny rule prohibits market participants from displaying quotations in pricing increments smaller than a penny, with exceptions for quotes and orders priced at less than $1.00 per share. the changes in the competitive landscape driven by these rules could have far reaching and unforeseeable impacts on our businesses. the best price rule and the fair access rule will apply to a small group of stocks beginning in may 2007, with implementation for all securities required by october 2007. the market information rule is scheduled to apply beginning in april 2007, and the sub-penny pricing rule took effect on january 31, 2006. regulatory contractual relationships with nasdr regulatory services agreement. nasdr provides us with regulatory services, including the regulation of trading activity on the exchange and the surveillance and investigative functions of the exchange, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement and a transitional regulatory agreement discussed below. the regulatory services agreement became effective for nasdaq-listed securities on august 1, 2006 and is anticipated to become effective for non-nasdaq-listed securities in march 2007. in december 2006, we entered into a transitional regulatory services agreement with nasd under which nasd provides regulatory services with respect to our systems for trading non-nasdaq-listed securities. prior to the effective dates of the regulatory services agreement and transitional services agreement, nasdr provided regulatory services to us pursuant to the delegation plan. we paid nasdr $33.8 million for 2006 and $41.7 million for 2005 for regulatory services. under the regulatory services agreement, nasdr will provide regulatory services to us for ten years commencing august 1, 2006. the services are of the same type and scope as were provided by nasdr to us under the delegation plan. each regulatory service is to be provided for a minimum of five years, then the parties may determine to terminate a particular service. the termination of a particular service will generally be based upon a review of pricing and the need for such services. under the agreement, nasdr bills us a fee for each required service provided that it is based on nasdr direct and indirect costs plus a markup of six percent on compensation costs related to nasdr employees used to provide the services. any services other than those required by the agreement are billed at cost, plus a mutually agreed upon markup. under the regulatory services agreement, nasdr: reviews and approves new member applications; performs automated surveillance of trading on the nasdaq stock market; 21 table of contents reviews member firm compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to trading and market-making functions in the nasdaq stock market; investigates suspicious activity in quoting and trading on the nasdaq stock market; conducts examinations of member firms; initiates the disciplinary process once it is determined that a potential violation of a federal securities law or rule, or an sro rule, may have occurred; and operates an arbitration program and a mediation program for the resolution of customer, member firm employee, and nasdaq member-to-member disputes. for further discussion of these agreements and our other related party transactions, see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence. the transitional regulatory services agreement with nasd, which we entered into in connection with the removal of the exchange from the delegation plan, will be in place from december 2006 until the partial implementation of regulation nms in march 2007. the transitional regulatory services agreement is substantially similar to the existing regulatory services agreement. under the transitional agreement, nasd provides regulatory services with respect to systems for trading non-nasdaq-listed securities and charges nasdaq in accordance with the procedures that had existed under the delegation plan. employees as of february 21, 2007, nasdaq had 898 employees. none of its employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. nasdaq considers its relations with its employees to be good. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information sec filings. item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing nasdaq. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents our high leverage limits our financial flexibility. we have a significant amount of debt. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2006 was approximately $1.5 billion and we may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under our revolver and up to an additional $400 million under our swingline facility, subject to meeting certain conditions. this significant leverage may: impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes; reduce funds available to us for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; and curtail our flexibility to respond to changing economic or competitive conditions or to make acquisitions. our significant debt resulted in the downgrading of our credit rating by moody and by standard &amp; poor in the second quarter of 2006. in addition, on november 28, 2006, as a result of the significant debt we would have incurred in connection with our lapsed offers for the remaining lse share capital, standard &amp; poor cut our long-term counterparty credit rating to bb from bb+. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged. the exchange convertible notes also contain a covenant restricting our ability to incur debt senior to the convertible notes and as a consequence of the current debt outstanding under our credit facilities, the exchange convertible notes would not permit us to incur additional debt senior to the convertible notes. future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past three years, acquisitions, including the acquisitions of inet ecn and nasdaq execution services, llc (formerly brut, llc), have been a significant factor in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as a result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures are important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing stockholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt resulted in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with the credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. we may not be able to meet those restrictions. 23 table of contents these equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from our other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with a future acquisition, including overpaying for a future acquisition; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. we must continue to invest in our operations to integrate prior transactions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds to do so. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings. however, if we are unable to fund our capital requirements as currently planned, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our current debt instruments. furthermore, if we issue additional equity our equity holders may suffer dilution. there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all. we face significant competition in our business. the securities trading business is highly competitive. we face competition from numerous entities in the securities trading industry, including competition for listings and trading services from other exchanges and market centers. such competition also includes pricing competition. in addition, competition could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges in the united states, regulation nms and globalization in the industry. the following factors are some of the risks associated with competition that may affect our business and results of operations: price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices and increased rebates to attempt to gain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which has adversely impacted operating results. we have recently taken steps to rationalize our pricing. this rationalization of our pricing may adversely affect our market share. price competition with respect to market data rebates or our program relating to sharing revenues associated with trading nasdaq-listed securities could attract trading volume away from us, leading to loss of market share and decreased revenues. 24 table of contents globalization, growth, consolidations and other strategic arrangements may impair our competitive position. the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. as a result, the competition among u.s.-based and non-u.s.-based markets and other execution venues has become more intense. in addition, in the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. in response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both europe and the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. also, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we face competition from new competitors in the securities trading industry. examples of these new competitors include: the boston stock exchange, inc., the chicago stock exchange, inc., the philadelphia stock exchange, inc, the national stock exchange and the international securities exchange have all recently entered into investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges; knight capital group, inc., a market maker in nasdaq-listed securities, has acquired attain ecn, a nasdaq competitor now operating as direct edge; tradebot systems launched the bats ecn; citigroup inc. announced plans to launch its own electronic stock-trading network from its acquisition of ontrade inc., an ecn previously operated by nextrade holdings inc.; nyse potential entry in trading nasdaq-listed securities; ise began trading cash equities; and philadelphia stock exchange recently began trading nasdaq-listed securities. because of these market trends, we face intense competition. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, we believe regulation nms may enhance competition in nasdaq-listed securities from these or other new competitors. additionally, new ecns may develop trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. finally, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform, which may divert trading volume from the nasdaq market center. if these or other trading venues are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. also, our trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with the nasd for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facilities operated jointly with nasd by the national stock exchange, and soon, the boston stock exchange and nyse. recent mergers and acquisitions activity of nyse. the recent merger of nyse and archipelago as well as the nyse announced merger with euronext will create strong competition for us, particularly if nyse is able to create its own electronic trading platform or migrate its trading business to archipelago platform and if nyse is able to attract new overseas listings. nyse 25 table of contents is developing electronic trading capabilities that will compete directly with ours. in addition, the merger with archipelago has given nyse access to arcaex electronic systems. if nyse trading volume increases to our detriment as a result of the merger with archipelago, it would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, the proposed merger of nyse and euronext could result in a stronger competitor for us than nyse and euronext as stand-alone businesses. if the nyse/euronext merger is consummated and they are able to compete for additional overseas listings to our detriment, it would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results. we compete for trading of nasdaq-, nyse- and amex-listed securities. any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report trades through exchanges, ecns or the alternative display facility maintained by nasd could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through the nasdaq market center. any reduction in our share of trades or quotes would reduce our share of tape revenue from the utp and cta plans under regulation nms and could reduce the value of our proprietary data products. while we trade a large percentage of securities of nasdaq-listed companies, we face strong competition from other exchanges and emerging players in the market. for non-nasdaq-listed securities, the other national exchanges offer significant level of liquidity in many non-nasdaq-listed securities. accordingly, we face major obstacles in continuing to grow our trading volume in non-nasdaq-listed securities. our responses to competition may not be sufficient to regain lost business or prevent other market participants from shifting some of their quoting and/or trade reporting to other industry participants. we may need to reduce prices to remain competitive. our inability to compete for transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses. we face significant competition in our listing businesses from other exchanges. historically, nyse has been our largest competitor, and we have competed with nyse primarily for listings of larger domestic and international companies. in addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from us to other venues. significant transfers could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for financial products. we continue to develop our financial products business, which creates indexes and licenses them for nasdaq-branded financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors financial products designed to replicate or correlate with the performance of our financial products. in addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing of these financial products, has changed in a manner which is likely to adversely impact our ability to successfully license our products. in september 2005, the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york dismissed actions brought by mcgraw-hill and dow jones against an options market that threatened to trade options on etfs without a license. this dismissal was affirmed by the united states court of appeals for the second circuit in june 2006. the second circuit ruled that markets, in facilitating the trading of options on etfs, are not misappropriating any intellectual property right of index providers. further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce products that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. a decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. weak economic 26 table of contents conditions or a reduction in securities prices could result in a decline in trading volume. a decline in trading volume would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. we are particularly affected by declines in trading volume in technology-related securities because a significant portion of our customers trade in these types of securities and a large number of the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market are in the technology sector. in addition, investor confidence and trader interest, and thus trading volume, can be affected by factors outside our control, such as the publicity surrounding investigations and prosecutions for corporate governance or accounting irregularities at public companies. declines in the initial public offering market have an adverse effect on our revenues. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result of the decline in the ipo market from 2000-2002, our deferred revenue associated with those years will be lower than our deferred revenue associated with the periods from 2003 to the present. losses in listings could cause a reduction in revenues. while the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers securities. if the combined nyse/euronext is successful in competing with us for core listings, we would lose not only the listing fees associated with those companies, but also a substantial amount of the trade execution fees generated by trading in those companies securities. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume. our revenue, margins and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, making them difficult to predict. these difficulties are particularly exacerbated in light of our recent acquisitions and the uncertainties surrounding the benefits and costs associated with integration. additionally, since our borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates and we do not have interest rate hedges in place on this debt, any increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both gross margins and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these actions, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. we must control our costs to remain profitable. we base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. a decline in our products and services may reduce our revenues without a corresponding decline in our expenses since we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. our ability to manage and estimate our 27 table of contents costs will be particularly challenging as a result of recent acquisitions and integration efforts. failure to achieve our goals on cost savings will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the quality of our corporate governance structure; and the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market information services business and the accuracy of calculations used by our financial products business for indices and unit investment trusts. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchange as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchange or cause us to lose customers in our market information services or financial products businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. the value of our lse investment could decline due to fluctuations in lse stock price, the foreign currency exchange rate and payment of dividends. the market value of our investment in the lse is subject to market price volatility. we currently do not have any hedges on our investments, including our investment in the lse. to the extent that we have not hedged our exposure to a decrease in the value of these securities, the value of our lse investment could decrease. to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we also are subject to the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate related to our investment. although we received dividends of $16.2 million in 2006, there is no guarantee that lse will pay dividends to shareholders in future periods or that any dividends will be in comparable amounts. lse is subject to certain risks. lse suffers many of the same risks we suffer. to the extent these risks affect the future performance of the lse businesses and, in turn, the market price of lse share capital, the value of our investment in lse could be materially affected. we may not be able keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platform fails to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce, or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. in addition, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our business depends on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting us. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we 28 table of contents could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. we have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. under the exchange limitation of liability rule, we, subject to certain caps, may provide compensation for losses due to malfunctions of our order-execution systems. if our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing, or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, security breaches, outages and similar events. we have active and aggressive programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. although we currently maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. the adoption and implementation of regulation nms by the sec could adversely affect our business. on april 6, 2005, the sec adopted regulation nms. regulation nms four primary components are: the order protection rule, the access rule, the market data rule and the sub-penny rule. the major provisions of regulation nms will continue to be phased in over the course of 2007. we may incur technological and other costs in changing our systems and operations so that we can comply with these rules. we may also lose revenues due to a new formula under regulation nms for allocating market data revenue under the national market system plans. additionally, the impact of regulation nms is hard to predict and there may be problems or competitive challenges that we do not foresee that adversely affect our business as regulation nms is implemented. finally, there is also a risk that the rules may materially change during implementation which would undermine business plans and investments that have been made based on the current form of the rules. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. we operate in a highly regulated industry. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to a number of recent developments and inquiries. any of these factors or events may result in future regulatory or other changes, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. our customers also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use the nasdaq market center or could adversely affect the nasdaq stock market. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on the nasdaq stock market as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to extensive regulation that may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in our rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed, and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, 29 table of contents disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay the initiation of the public comment process or the approval process. this delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with ecns that are not subject to the same sec approval process, but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, nasdaq execution services, llc and nasdaq options services, llc are broker-dealers, which are subject to regulation by the sec, nasd and other self-regulatory organizations. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and nasd impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule, nyse and nasd rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to, and/or approval of, the sec, nyse and nasd for certain withdrawals of capital. we have self-regulatory organization obligations and also operate a for-profit business, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on the nasdaq stock market and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our market by market participants and nasdaq-listed companies. the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. while we outsource the majority of our market regulation functions to nasd, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our market. in addition, as part of our application for exchange registration, we have agreed that 20% of the directors of our exchange subsidiary will be elected by members of the exchange rather than the equity holders of the subsidiary. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate the exchange, to fairly and accurately enforce the rules of the exchange, to maintain a fair and orderly trading marketplace, to detect and correct aberrant market activity or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. in particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our president and chief executive officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. other than employment agreements with mr. greifeld and our general counsel, we do not have employment agreements with our key executive officers, which would prevent them from leaving and competing with us. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities laws liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. while we enjoy immunity from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, we and our broker-dealer affiliates could be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and other regulatory agencies, including insurance laws and regulations. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, or claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we made materially false or misleading statements or otherwise improper disclosures. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us or our affiliates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, we are subject to oversight by the sec. the sec regularly examines us and our broker-dealer affiliates for compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under those laws, we or our broker-dealer affiliates could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our core trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. we are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: fluctuations in the value of our investment in lse; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; 31 table of contents conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2006, there were 112,317,987 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 4,411,409 options exercisable as of december 31, 2006 at a weighted average exercise price of $8.71. the number of our shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our convertible notes primarily held by silver lake partners, or slp, and hellman &amp; friedman, or h&amp;f, or their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 30,689,655 shares of our common stock, or any exercise of warrants primarily held by slp and h&amp;f or their respective affiliates, which are exercisable at a price of $14.50 per share into approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock. we have granted slp and h&amp;f and their affiliates demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to the convertible notes and the shares of our common stock underlying those notes and warrants. all shares or notes sold under a registration statement will be freely transferable. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and approved exchange rules, including provisions included to address sec concerns, and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. the sec has proposed rules that will impose voting and ownership limitations on broker-dealers of 20%, but not require other voting or ownership limitations. we have not determined at this time if we will seek to raise our 5% voting limitation if the sec adopts the proposed rule. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, our exchange rules include a rule prohibiting any nasdaq member or any person associated with a nasdaq member beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. our exchange rules also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. in addition, our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that 32 table of contents might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, that could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 18 risk factors in this form 10-k. table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: 2008 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the effective dates for and expected benefits of ongoing initiatives; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to consummate or implement or realize synergies from our strategic initiatives and any consequences from our pursuit of our corporate strategy, including the proposed business combination with omx ab, the transactions with borse dubai limited and the dubai international financial exchange and the proposed acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange; loss of significant trading volume or listed companies; covenants in the indenture governing our notes, and our other existing and proposed debt documents, that may restrict our business; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. table of contents part i item 1. business. nasdaq overview the nasdaq stock market, inc. is a holding company that operates the nasdaq stock market llc as its wholly-owned subsidiary. nasdaq became a holding company on august 1, 2006 when the nasdaq stock market commenced operations as a registered national securities exchange for nasdaq-listed securities. we, through our subsidiaries, are a leading provider of securities listing, trading, and information products and services. our revenue sources are diverse and include revenues from transaction services, market data products and services, listing fees, insurance products, shareholder, directors and newswire services and financial products. the nasdaq stock market is the largest equity securities market in the united states, both in terms of number of listed companies and traded share volume. as of december 31, 2007, the nasdaq stock market was home to 3,135 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of over $4.2 trillion. transactions involving 757.1 billion equity securities were executed on or reported to our systems in 2007, 30.3% higher than in 2006. we manage, operate and provide our services in two business segments, our market services segment and issuer services segment. market services . our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. the nasdaq stock market operates the nasdaq market center, our transaction-based platform, which provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market and other national securities exchanges in the u.s. enabling our customers to execute trades in over 7,400 equity securities (including etfs) during 2007. the nasdaq market center allows us to route and execute buy and sell orders as well as report transactions for nasdaq-listed securities and those securities listed on other national securities exchanges, providing fee-based revenues. we also generate revenues by providing varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. our systems enable vendors to gain direct access to our detailed order data, index information, mutual fund pricing information, and corporate action information on nasdaq-listed securities. issuer services. our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder, directors and newswire services and our financial products business. the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including information technology, financial services, healthcare, consumer products and industrials. in the financial products business, we develop and license financial products and associated derivatives based on nasdaq indexes. we have also introduced financial products based on other nasdaq indexes, including the nasdaq-100 index, the nasdaq composite index and the nasdaq biotechnology index. in addition, we generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we also provide, through our subsidiaries, products and services to our listed companies and other customers, including insurance, shareholder, directors and newswire services. recent developments combination with omx ab and transactions with borse dubai. on september 20, 2007, nasdaq, borse dubai and omx entered into definitive documents related to various transactions, or collectively, the transactions. pursuant to the transactions, borse dubai conducted an offer for all of the outstanding shares of omx. borse dubai initial offer expired on february 12, 2008 and it announced that 97.6% of the outstanding shares of omx have been tendered. under the terms of the agreement, borse dubai has agreed to sell the omx 1 table of contents shares acquired in the offer or otherwise owned by borse dubai or its subsidiaries to us in exchange for up to sek 12.6 billion in cash (which amount will be decreased by sek 265 for every omx share not acquired by borse dubai) and 60.6 million shares of nasdaq common stock. at the close of the transactions, borse dubai will directly hold approximately 42.7 million shares of nasdaq common stock (representing 19.99% of our fully diluted outstanding share capital) and approximately 18.0 million shares will be held in a trust, or the trust, for borse dubai economic benefit until disposed of by the trust. in addition, as part of the transactions, we, borse dubai and the dubai international financial exchange, or difx, have entered into an agreement which provides that in exchange for $50 million in cash to difx and the entry into certain technology and trademark licensing agreements, we will acquire 33 1/3% of the equity of difx. we will also be responsible for 50% of any additional capital contribution calls made by difx, subject to a maximum aggregate additional commitment by nasdaq of up to $25 million. closing of this transaction is conditioned upon the concurrent closing of the combination with omx. we expect the transactions and the difx investment to close by the end of february 2008. proposed acquisitions of the boston stock exchange and the philadelphia stock exchange . on october 1, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the boston stock exchange, or bsx, for $61.0 million in cash. the bsx acquisition will provide us with an additional license for trading both equities and options and a clearing license. after the close of the bsx acquisition, we expect that bsx current operations will be discontinued and will not be integrated into our current operations. we expect the acquisition of bsx to close in the first half of 2008. on november 7, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the philadelphia stock exchange, or phlx, for $652.0 million in cash, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. the acquisition of phlx, the third largest options market in the u.s., will significantly diversify our product portfolio by providing us with a premier options trading platform in the u.s. we expect the acquisition of phlx to close in the first half of 2008. sale of lse investment. in 2006, we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary nightingale acquisition limited, or nal, acquired an investment in the london stock exchange group plc, or the lse, at that time totaling approximately 28.8% of the issued ordinary share capital of the lse. on september 25, 2007, we sold 28.0% of lse share capital to borse dubai for approximately $1.6 billion in cash. on september 26, 2007, through open market transactions, we sold the remaining substantial balance of our holdings in the lse for $193.5 million in cash. we used approximately $1.1 billion of the approximately $1.8 billion in total proceeds from the sale of the lse shares to repay in full and terminate our then-outstanding credit facilities. nasdaq history and structure we were founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra, or the financial industry regulatory authority (then known as national association of securities dealers, or nasd), which operates subject to the oversight of the sec. beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened our ownership through a two-phase private placement of our securities. securities in the private placements were offered to all finra members, as well as some investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with the restructuring, on november 9, 2000, we applied to the sec for registration as a national securities exchange. prior to operating as an exchange, the nasdaq stock market operated under a delegation plan approved by the sec that provided a delegation of legal authority from finra to us to operate as a stock market. although we exercised primary responsibility for market-related functions, including market-related rulemaking and interpretations, all actions taken pursuant to authority by finra were subject to review, ratification or rejection by the finra board of directors. 2 table of contents the sec approved our application to register as a national securities exchange on january 13, 2006, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. upon fulfilling these conditions, the nasdaq stock market began operating as a registered national securities exchange for nasdaq-listed securities in august 2006 and as an exchange for non-nasdaq-listed securities in february 2007. to facilitate our operation as a national securities exchange, we also formed the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility llc, or finra/nasdaq trf, a wholly-owned subsidiary. through the finra/nasdaq trf we continue to collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchange. finra regulates the finra/nasdaq trf as one of its facilities. the finra/nasdaq trf began operating in august 2006 for nasdaq-listed securities and in march 2007 for non-nasdaq-listed securities. on december 20, 2006, we ceased to be a subsidiary of finra. finra maintained voting control over us through its ownership of the one outstanding share of our series d preferred stock and finra consolidated our financial position and results of operations in its consolidated financial statements. in connection with the process of the nasdaq stock market becoming a registered national securities exchange, nasdaq was removed as a party to the delegation plan and we redeemed finra share of series d preferred stock. finra achieved full divestiture of ownership of our common stock with the sale of its remaining shares of our common stock in july 2006. in august 2006, we adopted a holding company structure in connection with our registration as a national securities exchange. our subsidiary, the nasdaq stock market llc, holds the operations of the exchange and our exchange license. in november 2006, we completed an internal reorganization that resulted in the transfer of ownership of some of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, to our exchange subsidiary. with exchange registration, nasdaq received its own status as a self-regulatory organization, or sro, through nasdaq exchange subsidiary separate from that of finra. pursuant to securities laws, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. as an sro, the nasdaq stock market has its own rules pertaining to its members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by finra. broker-dealers may choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, in addition to their memberships with other sros, including finra. see nasdaq regulation. finra continues to provide regulatory services to us. see nasdaq regulation regulatory services agreement. nasdaq products and services we operate in two segments: market services and issuer services. financial information about segments and geographic areas may be found in note 20, segments, to our consolidated financial statements. market services . our market services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. for the year ended december 31, 2007, market services revenues were $2,152.4 million, which represented 88.3% of nasdaq total revenues. market services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees were $528.1 million, which represented 65.0% of total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. trade execution services . the nasdaq market center is our transaction-based platform that provides market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in the nasdaq stock market. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers operating as electronic communication networks, or ecns, registered securities exchanges and other broker-dealers. we provide these services for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, the nasdaq market center: provides a comprehensive display of the interest by our market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). 3 table of contents provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the nasdaq crossing network, including the opening, closing, halt, ipo, intraday and post-close crosses. provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. our execution services generate revenues from: transaction execution charges, which are charges assessed on a per share basis to the party that accesses the liquidity provided by another market participant. in most circumstances, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge as a rebate (presented as cost of revenues) to the market participant that provides the liquidity (liquidity is the number and range of buy and sell orders available to our market participants). these charges represent our primary fee for execution services. our share of tape fees for the trading of securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, and the american stock exchange, or amex. also, we pay fees to the sec pursuant to section 31 of the securities exchange act of 1934, or section 31 fees. these fees are recorded as execution and trade reporting revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. the section 31 fees are designed to recover the costs to the government of supervision and regulation of securities markets and securities professionals. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on the nasdaq stock market and recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. to enhance market transparency, we introduced the opening cross and closing cross in 2004 and the halt cross and ipo cross in 2006. the opening cross is a process for pre-market open trading and price discovery consisting of a centralized order facility that provides market participants and investors with a highly transparent and accurate opening price in securities listed on an exchange. similarly, the closing cross is a centralized order facility that provides an orderly market close for securities listed on an exchange. the ipo cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process to begin secondary trading of initial public offerings based on supply and demand. the halt cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process when we resume trading in market halted securities. a new pegged order type that allows the price of an order to be pegged to the mid-point of the national best bid and offer, or nbbo, was introduced in january 2007. we also introduced the intraday and post-close crosses, part of a new fully-anonymous trade execution facility designed to promote the execution of large trades, in july 2007. the intraday and post-close crosses provide market participants and investors with a highly efficient and accurate single price at specific times during the trading day, resulting in the discovery of larger pools of liquidity while minimizing market impact and associated price movements. in the first quarter of 2007, we completed our integration of the nasdaq market center and the brut and inet execution systems into a single trading platform. nasdaq system integration, which is based on the inet platform, provides improved execution quality and speed, while maintaining the attributes of the nasdaq market center, including market making functionality, attributed quotes, and the nasdaq crossing network. our system integration in nasdaq-listed securities was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the system integration in non-nasdaq-listed securities was completed in february 2007. 4 table of contents we currently provide connectivity and order routing to options exchanges. in the first half of 2008, subject to sec approval, we expect to launch the nasdaq options market, a new options trading platform. the trading platform will be designed to leverage our existing technology, which we acquired through the inet acquisition. in addition, the trading platform exchange will leverage our current customer connectivity and market structure. we are designing the trading platform to handle the options market transition from nickel and dime quoting increments to penny quoting increments. trade reporting services . all registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. we provide three primary revenue-generating reporting services: trade reporting . trades executed on the nasdaq stock market are automatically reported by us under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, we do not charge market participants for reporting most of these trades. we do, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the nasdaq unlisted trading privileges plan, or utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities, under the consolidated tape plan, or cta plan, for nyse-listed securities and the consolidated quotation plan, or cq plan, for amex- and regional exchange-listed securities. in addition, the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades result from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and are submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf does not charge market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it does earn shared market information revenues with respect to the trades. trade comparison . the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker-dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. risk management . we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. access services to our trading platform . we provide our market participants with several alternatives for accessing the nasdaq market center for a fee. by shifting connectivity to the nasdaq market center from proprietary networks to third-party networks, we have significantly reduced our technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. the nasdaq market center may be accessed using our financial information exchange, or fix, product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors. this product enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to the nasdaq market center. we also have developed qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates. market participants may also access the nasdaq market center using computer-to-computer interface, another protocol, which allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. finally, firms may use former inet protocols to access our single trading platform. as an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, nasdaq provides the new nasdaq workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. we also provide co-location services to our market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. we charge these participants fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. market information . we collect and provide varying levels of analytical, quote and trade information to market participants and data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public as part of our nasdaq market services subscriptions business. we collect information, distribute it and earn revenues as a member of the utp plan and as a distributor of our proprietary market data. 5 table of contents we operate as the exclusive securities information processor as part of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of the best bid and offer information and last transaction information from the exchanges and markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. we also are a participant in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in our role as the securities information processor, we collect and disseminate quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to data vendors, which the data vendors then sell to the public. after deducting costs associated with acting as an exclusive securities information processor, we distribute the tape fees to the respective utp plan participants, including us, based on a combination of the participants respective trading share and quoting share as determined by the regulation nms formula. in addition, all nasdaq market center trades in exchange-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and amex-listed securities. interested parties also can receive real-time quote and trade information beyond the best bid and offer quotes through a number of proprietary products that we offer. we use our broad distribution network of market data vendors and market participants (1,475 as of december 31, 2007) to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq market center for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the nasdaq crossing network. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer a totalview enterprise license to facilitate broad based distribution of this data to large audiences. during 2007, our totalview professional subscribers increased by over 34% (excluding non-paying internal users and users via the nasdaq workstation product). in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq datastore, one aspect of nasdaq initiative to use plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content. nasdaq pre, the nasdaq daily share volume report, and nasdaq pathfinders were new products introduced in beta form in 2007 via the nasdaq datastore; nasdaq market analytix, a suite of data products including nasdaq market forces and nasdaq velocity designed to provide market insights based on calculations performed on the data that is provided to nasdaq execution services; modelview, a product designed to provide greater insight into the patterns of liquidity in the nasdaq market center; openview, a product providing complete depth-of-book liquidity for the nasdaq market center in nyse- and amex-listed securities; mutual fund quotation service, a listing service for over 25,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; mutual fund dissemination service, a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds listed with us; nasdaq index dissemination service, a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; nasdaq.com, a leading financial website for the investor community that generates revenues from advertising and product sales; and 6 table of contents nasdaqtrader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data vendors with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as the nasdaq crossing network) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee. issuer services. our issuer services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder, directors and newswire services and our financial products business. for the year ended december 31, 2007, issuer services accounted for revenues of $283.9 million, which represented 11.7% of our total revenues and 35.0% of our total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage clearance and exchange fees. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements. securities listings business . we have operated our securities listings business as the corporate client group, which provides customer support services and products to nasdaq-listed companies and is responsible for obtaining new listings on the nasdaq stock market. more companies list on the nasdaq stock market than any other u.s. market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies undergoing ipos. in the year ended december 31, 2007, we attracted 62% of the ipos eligible for listing on the nasdaq stock market and 36% of the ipos eligible for listing on the nyse. year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market 132 137 126 percentage of initial public offerings on primary u.s. markets 62 % 67 % 59 % capital raised by initial public offerings listed on the nasdaq stock market (in billions) $ 16.8 $ 17.4 $ 12.3 companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three tiers of listed companies: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. our top listing tier, the nasdaq global select market, has the highest initial listing standards in the world. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards and issuers listing on these markets have the opportunity to leverage an array of nasdaq corporate services. as of december 31, 2007, a total of 1,156 companies listed securities on the nasdaq global select market, 1,478 companies listed securities on the nasdaq global market and 501 companies listed securities on the nasdaq capital market. during 2007, 290 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 36 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 183 on the nasdaq global market and 71 on the nasdaq capital market. during 2006, 285 new companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, with 19 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 216 on the nasdaq global market and 50 on the nasdaq capital market. in 2007, a total of 32 companies switched their listing to the nasdaq stock market from the nyse or amex. in 2006, a total of 30 companies switched from amex, and liberty media corporation, innospec inc., computer task group, inc. and e*trade financial switched from the nyse. notable listings in 2007 included the ipos of national cinemedia, inc., meruelomaddux properties and clearwire corporation and the switches from nyse of directv, and from amex of halozyme therapeutics, inc., national beverage corp. and powersecure international. nasdaq also saw several notable industrial listings, including the ipos of orion energy systems, inc. and greek shipping company paragon shipping inc. and the amex switch of odyssey marine exploration, inc. 7 table of contents we also have attracted listings from foreign companies seeking to access u.s. capital markets. notable non-u.s. new listings in 2007 included the switch of star bulk carriers corp. from the amex and the ipos of mercadolibre, inc. from argentina, lululemon athletica from canada, visionchina media inc. from china, and castlepoint holdings ltd. from bermuda. we had a total of 309 foreign companies listed on our markets at december 31, 2007 and 323 at december 31, 2006. since 2004, we have permitted nyse-listed issuers to dually list their stock on the nasdaq stock market. as of december 31, 2007, securities of 11 companies were dual listed on the nasdaq stock market and nyse. we continue to target companies about joining the dual-listing program. each year some companies cease listing with us for several reasons. in 2007, 348 companies ceased listing on the nasdaq stock market. companies cease listing for the following reasons: failing to meet our listing standards (approximately 14% of delistings in 2007), merger and acquisition activity (approximately 64%) and, to a lesser extent, for other reasons such as switching to another listing venue (approximately 22%). during 2007, the 348 delistings were offset by 132 ipos and 158 other added listings. there were 285 added listings and 303 delistings in 2006. we charge issuers an initial listing fee, a listing of additional shares fee and an annual fee. the initial listing fee for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. the fee for listing of additional shares is based on the total shares outstanding, which we review quarterly. annual fees for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market are based on total shares outstanding. initial listing and listing of additional shares fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are six and four years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience, pursuant to the requirements of sec staff accounting bulletin topic 13: revenue recognition, or sab topic 13. in february 2007, the sec approved a new pricing structure for our annual listing fees. this new schedule generally increased the annual and listing of additional shares fees listed companies pay to us, as well as the initial listing fee to list on the nasdaq capital market. after the initial listing, our corporate client group provides customer support services, products and programs to nasdaq-listed companies. to offer additional services to our listed companies, in 2005 we acquired carpenter moore and the remaining 50% interest in the nasdaq insurance agency, llc, independent insurance brokerage firms. in 2006, we acquired shareholder.com, a firm specializing in shareholder communications and investor relations intelligence services and primenewswire, a firm specializing in press release newswire and multimedia services. in 2007, we acquired directors desk llc, a firm providing technology to board members of public and private companies in the united states and abroad. financial products business . we develop and license nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of nasdaq financial products. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on assets or number or underlying dollar value of contracts issued. in addition to generating licensing revenues for nasdaq, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial companies listed on the nasdaq stock market. nasdaq indexes are the basis for over 600 financial products in 36 countries. nasdaq also licenses cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on its indexes. nasdaq financial products, through its portal market, facilitates the eligibility for clearing and settlement services at the depository trust and clearing corporation, or dtcc, of portal/rule 144a securities. in 2007 and in 2006, we continued to facilitate the processing service for rule 144a eligible securities through portal with over 2,400 and 2,700 applications processed, respectively. in august 2007, we launched 8 table of contents our portal trading system, a system allowing for online trading of equity securities pursuant to rule 144a of the u.s. securities act of 1933. the portal market id designed to be a comprehensive offering including capital formation, trading, data and financial products. on november 12, 2007, we and a group of leading securities firms announced our intention to form the portal alliance, an industry standard facility designated to serve the market for 144a equity securities. the portal alliance will work with third-party service providers to create an open, industry-standard facility for the private offering, trading, shareholder tracking and settlement of unregistered equity securities sold to qualified institutional buyers. fee changes we may change the pricing of our products and services in response to competitive pressures or changes in market or general economic conditions. pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, nasdaq must file all proposals for a change in its pricing structure with the sec. we provide updated information on the pricing of our products and services on our website at www.nasdaqtrader.com . see also competition and risk factors the securities market business is highly competitive. technology over the past six years, we have reduced our technology costs, consistent with our regulatory obligations, by migrating to fewer, less expensive technology platforms, introducing less expensive network solutions, and by reducing our workforce. our transaction speed throughput and system reliability has been enhanced by our migration to the inet platform. the nasdaq market center systems are located in a processing complex in our northeast data center. the systems have handled trade volume of over six billion shares daily and routinely handle over 250,000 transactions per second and are designed to maximize transaction reliability and network security across each of the most critical system services that comprise the nasdaq stock market. in addition, our systems have the ability to handle increased capacity. to maximize reliability, we have developed a backup system in the event the primary systems are unable to perform. market data from our quote and trade execution systems are transferred via high-speed communications links to a market data repository and are available for real-time analysis, historical analysis, market surveillance and regulation, and data mining. the information is provided to applications and users through relational databases, higher-level access facilities and internet applications. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for nasdaq-developed inventions and processes. we currently have 11 issued united states patents and approximately 58 pending applications, some of which also are filed in foreign jurisdictions. nasdaq acquisition strategy we have grown our business through acquisitions since 2004. our strategy for acquisitions is to identify and acquire only those elements that are most important to our success. we integrated the key components of the brut technology and the brut team into nasdaq in 2005 and completed the integration of inet and the migration 9 table of contents of its customers to the inet platform in 2007. consistent with this focused approach, we acquired carpenter moore, shareholder.com, primenewswire and directors desk to meet the specific needs of listed companies and other customers. in 2007, we entered into definitive agreements to combine with omx and to acquire the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange. nasdaq regulation federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. the nasdaq stock market is an sro. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our business in the following ways: regulation of the nasdaq stock market; and regulation of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. while we believe that regulation improves the quality of the nasdaq stock market and, therefore, our company, these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. any subsequent change in law or regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. regulation of the nasdaq stock market. with exchange registration, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. as an sro, we have our own rules pertaining to our members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by finra. broker-dealers may choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, in addition to their other sro memberships, including membership in finra. as the operator of a national securities exchange, virtually all facets of our operations are subject to the sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, and we are subject to periodic and special examinations by the sec. we also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make certain records available to the sec for examination. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. section 19 of the exchange act provides that we must submit proposed changes to any of the sro rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules, to the sec. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to 10 table of contents ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. if the sec disapproves a proposal that we have submitted, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, we must file all proposals for a change in our pricing structure with the sec. we sought to preserve a regulatory separation upon operation as a national securities exchange. finra provides regulatory services to the nasdaq stock market, including the regulation of trading activity on the exchange and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring through our marketwatch department. this department, among other things, monitors for trades whose prices are away from the current market and initiates trading halts as necessary. suspicious trading behavior discovered by marketwatch staff and all other nasdaq employees is referred to finra for further investigation. finra performs the surveillance and investigative functions for nasdaq. we have preserved this regulatory separation now that we are operational as a national securities exchange. we have additional regulatory functions related to companies listed on the nasdaq stock market that are handled by our listing qualifications department. this department is responsible for maintaining a compliance-monitoring and enforcement program with respect to our requirements for initial and continued listing. companies that wish to list on the nasdaq stock market are required to satisfy a variety of quantitative and qualitative requirements to become listed and to continue to be listed, including all our corporate governance listing standards. companies that fail to maintain compliance with these requirements are subject to delisting. to provide regulatory transparency and assist issuers in maintaining compliance, our listing qualifications department provides written interpretations with respect to the application of our listing requirements and maintains a website providing interpretive guidance. when we transferred our own listing from the otc bulletin board, or otcbb, to the nasdaq national market in 2005, the sec approved special listing standards with respect to listing our common stock on the nasdaq stock market. these listing standards require periodic reporting of compliance to the sec and an annual compliance audit by an independent accounting firm. our failure to maintain compliance with these listing standards could result in our common stock being delisted from the nasdaq stock market. regulatory services agreement . finra provides us with regulatory services, including the regulation of trading activity on the nasdaq stock market and the surveillance and investigative functions of the nasdaq stock market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement and a transitional regulatory agreement discussed below. the regulatory services agreement became effective for nasdaq-listed securities in august 2006 and for non-nasdaq-listed securities in march 2007. prior to the effectiveness of the regulatory services agreement, finra provided regulatory services to us pursuant to the delegation plan. we paid finra $28.9 million in 2007, $33.8 million in 2006 and $41.8 million in 2005 for regulatory services. under the regulatory services agreement, finra will provide regulatory services to us for 10 years commencing august 1, 2006. the services are of the same type and scope as were provided by finra to us under the delegation plan. each regulatory service is to be provided for a minimum of five years, then the parties may determine to terminate a particular service. the termination of a particular service will generally be based upon a review of pricing and the need for such services. under the agreement, finra bills us a fee for each required service provided that it is based on finra direct and indirect costs plus a markup of six percent on compensation costs related to finra employees used to provide the services. any services other than those required by the agreement are billed at cost, plus a mutually agreed upon markup. under the regulatory services agreement, finra: reviews and approves new member applications; performs automated surveillance of trading on the nasdaq stock market; 11 table of contents reviews member firm compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to trading and market-making functions in the nasdaq stock market; investigates suspicious activity in quoting and trading on the nasdaq stock market; conducts examinations of member firms; initiates the disciplinary process once it is determined that a potential violation of a federal securities law or rule, or an sro rule, may have occurred; and operates an arbitration program and a mediation program for the resolution of customer, member firm employee, and nasdaq member-to-member disputes. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. we acquired three broker-dealers, brut, llc, inet ats, inc. and island execution services, llc, in connection with recent acquisitions. in february 2006, inet ats, inc., the entity which operated the inet ecn, was merged into brut, llc, with brut, llc as the surviving entity. subsequently, brut, llc was renamed nasdaq execution services, llc. nasdaq execution services currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq market center to other venues for execution. in 2006, island execution services, llc was renamed nasdaq options services, llc. nasdaq options services is expected to serve as the options routing broker-dealer for nasdaq new options market when it is launched. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nyse, finra, amex, bsx, chicago stock exchange, international securities exchange, pacific stock exchange, phlx, the nasdaq stock market, chicago board options exchange and national stock exchange. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of finra, the amex, bsx, international securities exchange, pacific stock exchange, phlx and the nasdaq stock market. the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the dea for both nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services. a failure to comply with the sec request in a satisfactory manner may have adverse consequences and changing the dea may entail additional regulatory costs. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2007, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $18.9 million, or $18.6 million in excess of the minimum 12 table of contents amount required. as of december 31, 2007, nasdaq options services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $4.7 million, or $4.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. industry the liberalization and globalization of world financial markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets, greater trading volumes and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. as a result, the competition among u.s.-based and non-u.s.-based markets and other execution venues has become more intense. the increased globalization of world markets also has increased the need for regulatory cooperation between markets in different jurisdictions. industry growth is driven by additional demand for active and transaction-intensive asset management, the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms, significantly enhanced technology, increased participation from retail investors and regulatory changes both in europe and in the u.s. globally, investors continue to demand greater efficiency in trading securities, new sophisticated order types, seamless trading across asset classes and markets, and ever better performance of trading platforms, which we expect will continue to fuel growth in volumes, irrespective of the macroeconomic environment. recent regulatory changes have been implemented to eliminate trading barriers between exchanges and to increase efficiency for investors. the adoption of regulation nms in the u.s. and the current implementation of the european markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, aim to promote and ensure market center competition, order interaction and price transparency so that investors may enjoy lower transaction costs and more flexibility to trade financial assets in a number of different locations and methods. the most significant change in the u.s. is that every broker and exchange is obligated to route orders to any market center showing a better price. in europe, the corresponding effect of mfid is that every broker will be forced to route orders to the market centers with the best execution performance, including price, speed, liquidity and reliability. in both cases, the effect is expected to be increased performance-based competition among market centers. as a result of these industry trends, an exchange scale and technology have become very important factors in maintaining competitive advantages. scale allows for greater liquidity pools, which is a critical criterion for where investor order flow is directed. in addition, scale provides an exchange with operating leverage by processing a growing number of transactions over an existing technology platform, which we believe improves profitability. given the recent regulatory changes in the u.s. and europe, as well as the continued evolution of investor requirements, technology capabilities have become even more important because order flow will be driven to those exchange providers that provide the best execution performance and multi-asset trading capabilities over an integrated platform. the global cash equity exchange industry cash equities exchanges provide a broad set of services, including corporate listing services, trade execution, market information and in certain instances clearing and settlement services, in both the u.s. and internationally. the main function of a cash equities exchange is fair, transparent and efficient price discovery for listed securities. exchanges meet this objective by operating interactive marketplaces, either through electronic networks, or with increasing rarity, on physical trading floors, where buyers and sellers interact and, as such, they are under strict regulatory surveillance according to established rules and regulations. from 1996 through 2006, reported cash equities volume traded has experienced growth of approximately 121% on a global basis. the key drivers of cash equities trading volume growth are: improved trading technology, growth in alternative investment vehicles (i.e., hedge funds) and lower trading costs. advances in technology have increased communication speed, improved information availability, facilitated the globalization of trading, and lowered transaction costs. these developments also create new opportunities for regulators to improve the trading environment. as regulators level the playing 13 table of contents field, market participants are continuing their innovation. for example, advances in algorithmic trading are expected to account for a rapidly increasing share of total trading volume. algorithmic trading is expected to account for almost 25% of total global trading volume by 2008 up from only 14% in 2003. according to research by celent, llc, this rapid trade volume growth is being driven by increasingly sophisticated trading tools, as well as improved pre- and post-trade analytics. hedge funds, which often rely on higher-volume trading strategies, have experienced a cagr of approximately 16% in assets under management from 2000 through 2006. although hedge funds represent just 5% of all u.s. assets under management, they account for approximately 30% of all u.s. equity trading volume, according to the sec. fees charged by major exchanges, governmental and regulatory bodies, and intermediaries have, on a per transaction basis, decreased considerably. according to research by itg, a recognized data analytics firm, trading costs have fallen by approximately 35% for large investors over the past two years. these lower transaction fees encourage increased participation by all market participants, from the largest institutional investors to individual retail investors. market organization trends the exchange industry has been undergoing a historic reorganization. beginning with the demutualization of many major exchanges worldwide, exchange providers have been seeking greater economies of scale and broader scope both geographically and by asset class. globally, market participants are demanding greater performance and flexibility from exchanges. at the same time, regulatory initiatives such as regulation nms in the u.s. and mifid in europe have caused shifts in both exchange business models and boundaries. more recently, mergers and acquisitions have played a pivotal role in changing the exchange landscape. nasdaq has agreed to combine with omx and acquire phlx and bsx, in addition to its acquisition of inet in december 2005 and brut in september 2004. in 2007, the nyse merged with euronext after acquiring archipelago holdings, the parent of the pacific exchange and the archipelago ecn, in 2006. in addition, in early 2008, nyse agreed to acquire amex. in july 2007, the chicago board of trade and chicago mercantile exchange merged, forming one of the largest financial exchanges in the world. several broker-dealers have purchased or created equity ecns and other trading platforms. most of these new entrants have limited liquidity, however. additionally, in both the u.s. and europe, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. european exchanges have also been active participants in the changing face of the industry. in 2002, euronext was formed through the merger of the amsterdam, brussels and paris exchanges. euronext subsequently acquired the london international financial futures and options exchange, or liffe, and the portuguese exchange, bolsa de valores de lisboa e porto. in june 2007, lse acquired borsa italiana while deutsche b&ouml;rse acquired the international securities exchange in the u.s. in april 2007. in november 2006, omx acquired the iceland stock exchange and in october 2006 purchased a minority stake in the oslo stock exchange. in addition to merger and acquisition activity, there have been several attempts by exchanges to establish subsidiary markets outside their home countries. principal exchange activities equities trading function . both in the u.s. as well as in europe, there is tremendous competition between exchanges and ecns seeking to be the venue on which equity securities are traded. currently in the u.s., exchange-listed securities trade not just on the exchange on which they are listed, but also through other market centers including ecns and regional exchanges. after the full implementation of mifid, similar trading rules will commence in europe. as a result, regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and cost of trade execution should become increasingly relevant. 14 table of contents listing function. the market for listing services is primarily dependent on the economy, access to and costs for alternative sources of financing as well as the perception of the attractiveness of exchange listing and financing. registered securities exchanges provide a venue for corporate and etf issuers to list their equity securities for trading by market participants worldwide. there is substantial competition for listings, which are gained either through an ipo by a private company, an upgrade from the over-the-counter market, or otc, or listing switches gained at the expense of a competitor. market data function. demand from investors for high quality information to inform investment decisions is very strong. since an increasingly large portion of trading today is automated, requirements for the speed of information delivery are also escalating. laws, regulations and increasing demand from investors for reliable information provided on a real-time basis are all driving the development of the market for communications tools. companies use these tools to distribute information to the media, analysts, professional traders and private investors in an efficient manner. the equity exchange industry in the u.s. equities trading function . the main participants in the u.s. cash equities marketplace are the nasdaq stock market, the nyse, the amex, a number of regional exchanges (chicago and the national stock exchange in cincinnati) and ecns (sometimes referred to as alternative trading systems, or ats). the nasdaq stock market serves as one of two principal market centers for buying and selling exchange-listed securities in the u.s. additionally, there are other exchange trading venues such as amex and regional exchanges. unlike the specialist-based or hybrid markets, such as amex or nyse, the nasdaq stock market is a fully electronic, screen-based, enhance order book system where market makers bids and offers can be reviewed and accessed for automatic execution by all market participants at any time. in addition, the nasdaq stock market system provides a mechanism for all market participants (i.e., both order entry firms and brokers or market makers) to post non-marketable limit orders and to access posted limit orders both for their own account and when representing their customers on an agency basis, further enhancing liquidity. the average daily trading volume on u.s. exchanges increased from 3.1 billion in the year ended december 31, 2000 to 6.2 billion for the year ended december 31, 2007. total u.s. equity trading volumes grew approximately 25.7% during 2007 as compared the prior year. industry growth is driven by economic expansion, increased volatility, lower trading costs and the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms with significantly enhanced trading technology that provides faster execution speeds. growth in u.s. trading has also been significantly influenced by increased participation from retail and overseas investors and regulatory changes. listing function . the nasdaq stock market and the nyse are the primary listing venues for equity securities in the u.s. additionally, the amex has a smaller number of listings. at december 31, 2007, there were 3,135 listings on the nasdaq stock market. of the 213 ipos on u.s. equity markets during 2007, 132, or approximately 62%, chose to list on the nasdaq stock market, raising approximately $16.8 billion in equity capital, while the remainder listed on the nyse. of the 206 ipos on u.s. equity markets during 2006, 137, or approximately 67%, chose to list on the nasdaq stock market, raising approximately $17.4 billion in equity capital, while the remainder listed on the nyse or other markets. market data function . nasdaq serves as one of two central providers of real-time quote and trade data for u.s. exchange listed securities. it acts jointly with other national securities exchanges to collect and disseminate a consolidated stream of quotation and transaction information under national market system plans approved by the sec. nasdaq is the central provider of data for nasdaq-listed securities and nyse is the central provider of data for nyse and amex-listed securities. 15 table of contents regulation nms . regulation nms, which was fully implemented in 2007, has been a key driver behind the changes in execution services and market data businesses in the u.s. the following information describes the key directives of the regulation. best price rule : among the most significant provisions of regulation nms are order protection, also referred to as the best price rule, and fair access regulations. the order protection rule requires exchanges and other trading centers to establish procedures designed to prevent the execution of trades at prices inferior to protected quotations displayed by other exchanges. under the order protection rule, each exchange must interact with any market center offering a superior price before it can execute a trade at an inferior price on its systems for other reasons (such as trade size). fair access rule : the access rule requires market centers to provide fair and non-discriminatory access to quotations, establishes a limit on access fees to harmonize the pricing of quotations across different trading centers and requires all exchanges to maintain written rules that prohibit their members from displaying quotations that lock or cross automated quotations. market information rule : regulation nms also contains several market data rules that update the requirements for consolidating, distributing and displaying market information. these rules amend the current plans which disseminate consolidated market information by modifying the formulas for allocating plan revenues and broadening participation in plan governance. sub-penny rule : the sub-penny rule prohibits market participants from displaying quotations in pricing increments smaller than a penny, with exceptions for quotes and orders priced at less than $1.00 per share. outlook and future trends trading volume in both the u.s. and european equity markets has continued to grow meaningfully over the past few years. industry growth is being driven by additional demand for active and transaction-intensive asset management, the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms, lower transaction costs, narrow spreads, significantly enhanced technology, increased participation from retail investors and regulatory changes. as pension funds and institutional investors shift greater allocations to hedge funds and alternative asset managers who use sophisticated and complex trading strategies, volumes are expected to continue to increase. the strategies implemented by these investors, including quantitative and program trading models are transaction-intensive. electronic trading has enabled buyside traders to access the market with minimal infrastructure or systems costs. furthermore, as sellside trading firms have grown operations and pushed toward faster and more automated trading, volumes have increased substantially, creating value not only for trading firms, but for the exchanges handling the trading. at the same time, macro and demographic trends are helping to drive ongoing volume growth. the rising life expectancy of an aging population is forcing a larger absolute number of investors to seek higher returns in the global equity markets. this is also contributing to changes for traditional institutional investors whose focus was to ensure that their own investment strategy was more profitable than a comparative index. today, demand is instead directed toward more stable returns, measured in absolute terms over a longer period, for which more active and transaction-intensive management is required. an increasing number of hedge funds have entered the industry to cater to this increased institutional demand. other participants, such as traditional pension funds, are adopting new investment strategies and are also becoming increasingly active in their management. at the same time, the use of more advanced and innovative methods and technologies for securities trading is spreading, resulting in an increasing number of transactions and a higher turnover rate. 16 table of contents competition the equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in our industry against the nyse, amex, regional exchanges and ecns based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of our markets, the quality of our value-added customer services, reputation and price in addition, recent cross-border mergers, such as the merger of nyse and euronext, and the continuing trend toward global consolidation among the exchanges may be expected to result in competition on a more global scale. in recent years, the marketplace has been altered by the entry of new ecns in the trade execution business and market participants acquisition and investment in existing ecns or regional exchanges. for example, tradebot launched the better alternative trading system, or bats ecn in 2006. following the launch, a number of major investment firms including deutsche bank, jpmorgan, citigroup, merrill lynch &amp; co., morgan stanley, lehman bros. holdings inc., lime brokerage llc, credit suisse, getco holdings co. llc and wedbush inc. have made minority investments in bats. also in 2006, citigroup announced its acquisition of ontrade, inc. from nextrade, and knight capital group, inc. acquired attain (direct edge) in 2005. citadel derivatives group and goldman sachs group subsequently made investments in direct edge. additional new entrants may emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. while many of the new entrants have limited liquidity, some have attracted significant levels of equity order volume through aggressive pricing and, we believe, from volume originating with their broker-dealer investors. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. also, other regional exchanges, such as the chicago stock exchange, inc., the national stock exchange and the international securities exchange have recently entered into investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges. equity securities trading. we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. our principal competitors for trading equity securities in the u.s. include nyse, amex, the regional exchanges and ecns. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result, we also implemented pricing changes in 2007 to lower certain trading fees. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. data services. our revenues from the sale of market information products and services are also under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by nasdaq and one regional exchange and are proposed by other exchanges. nasdaq utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternate display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, in proportion to such exchange share of trading as measured by dollar volume and number of qualified trades. nasdaq utp plan also entitles exchanges to a share of utp plan tape fees based on their quoting activity. participants in the utp plan have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq market center. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. we recently proposed changing the program effective first quarter 2008 and may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. we are also responding aggressively to competition by updating and innovating new data products to provide market participants with increased functionality and new and more extensive market information. 17 table of contents listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. we also compete, to a limited extent, with amex for listing of smaller, less active companies. as result of the nyse-archipelago merger and proposed nyse-amex merger, the nyse group is aggressively pursuing listings of smaller companies that have not historically qualified for listing on the nyse for listing on its junior market. in addition, we face competition for listing of foreign companies. financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. the source of this competition is not only large etf family sponsors, but also, increasingly, other mutual fund sponsors originating etfs. likewise, the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of these financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which can be considered competitive with nasdaq indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the nasdaq-100 index and nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. employees as of february 14, 2008, we had 891 employees. none of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. nasdaq considers its relations with its employees to be good. nasdaq website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaq.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information sec filings. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully combine the nasdaq and omx businesses. we intend to close our combination with omx by the end of february 2008. rationalizing, coordinating and integrating the operations of nasdaq and omx will involve complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges. this process will be time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; 18 table of contents unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in both the united states and europe, which may be different from each other; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between nasdaq and omx; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; the integration of nasdaq and omx respective businesses, operations and workforces; the retention of key employees and the management of omx and nasdaq; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at omx to enable the combined company to comply with the requirements of, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations required as a result of the combined company status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; possible modification of omx operating control standards in order for the combined company to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which is required as a result of the combined company status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the retention and recruitment of employees to support existing and new aspects of the combined company business and new technology development; the pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs, which are estimated at $150 million to be incurred in the two years following completion of the acquisition; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments; and regulatory issues. for these reasons, the combined company may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits, including cost savings from operational efficiencies and synergies, from the combination of the businesses of nasdaq and omx, and any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we currently anticipate, and we may fail to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the combination of the two companies. we will need to invest in our operations to integrate omx and other transactions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds to do so. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements, including our planned combination with omx and the proposed acquisitions of the boston stock exchange and the philadelphia stock exchange, from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings. if we are unable to fund our capital requirements as currently planned, however, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 19 table of contents in addition to our debt service obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations through 2010 to integrate omx. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate omx. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in the debt instruments we plan to enter into in connection with our acquisition of omx. furthermore, if we issue additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. thus, there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all. our leverage limits our financial flexibility. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2007 was approximately $118.4 million. in connection with the closing of our upcoming transactions, we expect to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness, including the issuance of up to $425 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes (not including any additional notes issued under an overallotment option for up to $50 million in aggregate principal amount) and borrowing up to $2.0 billion under senior secured loans under credit facilities. we may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under a revolver. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged. the securities market business is highly competitive. we face competition from numerous entities in the securities market industry, including competition for trading services, listings, and financial products from other exchanges and market centers. this competition includes both product and price competition and could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges and market centers in the united states and europe. in addition, the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. in response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both europe and 20 table of contents the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. examples of these new competitive forces include: the creation of nyse euronext, inc. in april 2007 and its pending acquisition of amex (see discussion below); new ecns operating in the u.s. cash equities trading market, such as direct edge, lava flow and bats; proposed new u.s. exchanges, such as bats, which has filed an application to register as a u.s. registered national securities exchange; the combination of deutsche b&ouml;rse ag and international securities exchange holdings, inc.; electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform; a number of investment banks have set up a multilateral trading facility in europe, also known as turquoise; a number of investment banks have launched a multilateral trade reporting facility in europe, also known as project boat; alternative trading platforms in europe such as equiduct, chi-x and plus markets; alternative trade reporting platforms in europe such as reuters trade publication; the chicago stock exchange, inc., the national stock exchange and the chicago board options exchange all have investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry; the international securities exchange and the chicago board options exchange launch of cash equities exchanges in september 2006 and march 2007, respectively; and global electronic interdealer brokers, such as icap. if these or other trading venues are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. because of these market trends, we face intense competition. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry in the united states is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices and increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which adversely impacts operating results. the securities trading industry also competes with respect to the pricing of market data. in addition, we are subject to price competition with respect to proprietary products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future our competitors may offer market data rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. 21 table of contents our trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with finra for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facilities operated jointly with finra by the national stock exchange and the nyse. our trade reporting facility also faces competition from finra alternative display facility. our competitors market data rebate programs for trade reporting could lead to a loss of market share and decreased revenues. the nyse recent mergers and acquisitions activity has created a strong competitor in our industry that has a similar strategy to ours. the combination of the nyse and euronext creates strong competition for us. the combination makes nyse euronext more competitive in attracting new listings. nyse euronext is also enhancing its electronic trading capabilities, which compete directly with nasdaq and may result in nyse euronext trading volume increasing to our detriment. on january 17, 2008, nyse euronext issued a press release announcing it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire amex. according to the press release, nyse euronext expects the acquisition of amex to enhance nyse euronext scale in u.s. options (making it the third largest u.s. options marketplace), and in etfs, closed-end funds, structured products and cash equities. if nyse euronext succeeds in attracting disproportionately more trading volume or additional listings, this may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results. we compete for trading of securities listed on nasdaq, nyse and amex. any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in the u.s. through other exchanges, electronic communications networks, ecns, or the alternative display facility maintained by finra, could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through the nasdaq market center. although we trade a large percentage of securities of nasdaq-listed companies, we face strong competition from other exchanges and emerging players in the market. for non-nasdaq-listed securities, the other national exchanges collectively offer greater liquidity than we do. accordingly, we face greater obstacles in trying to attract trading volume in non-nasdaq-listed securities. our responses to competition may not be sufficient to regain lost business or prevent other market participants from shifting some of their quoting and/or trade reporting to other industry participants. we may need to reduce prices to remain competitive. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing business. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing business from other exchanges. historically, the nyse has been our largest competitor, and we have competed with the nyse primarily for listings of larger domestic and international companies. in addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from nasdaq to other venues. while the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease our listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers securities. nasdaq revenues may be affected by competition in the business for financial products. we have grown our financial products business, which creates indexes and licenses them for nasdaq-branded financial products. nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors financial products designed to replicate or correlate with the performance of our financial products. in addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing 22 table of contents of these financial products, has changed in a manner which is likely to adversely impact our ability to successfully license our products. further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce products that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. a decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on the nasdaq stock market, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. in addition, investor confidence and trader interest, and thus trading volume, can be affected by factors outside our control, such as the publicity surrounding investigations and prosecutions for corporate governance or accounting irregularities at listed companies. declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume. additionally, since borrowings under the credit facilities that we plan to enter into in connection with our combination with omx bear interest at variable rates and we do not have interest rate hedges in place on this debt, any increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we must control our costs to remain profitable. we base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. a decline in the demand for our products and services may reduce our revenues without a corresponding decline in expenses since we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. our failure to achieve goals on cost savings will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 23 table of contents we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platform fails to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our business depends on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting us. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. nasdaq and omx have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. if our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. we have active and aggressive programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. the adoption and implementation of regulation nms by the sec could adversely affect our business. on april 6, 2005, the sec adopted regulation nms. regulation nms four primary components are: the order protection rule, the access rule, the market data rule and the sub-penny rule. we have incurred technological and other costs in changing our systems and operations so that we can comply with these rules. although the major provisions of regulation nms were largely phased in over the course of 2007, the impact of regulation nms is hard to predict and there may be problems or competitive challenges that we do not foresee that adversely affect our business due to regulation nms. regulation nms may increase competition in securities listed on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges from existing or new competitors. regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. nasdaq operates in a highly regulated industry. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to a number of recent developments and inquiries. any of these factors or events may result in future regulatory or other changes, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec and other regulatory authorities could impose 24 table of contents regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our market participants to use the nasdaq market center or could adversely affect the nasdaq stock market. regulatory changes by the sec or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on the nasdaq stock market. nasdaq is subject to extensive regulation that may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in our rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed, and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay the initiation of the public comment process or the approval process. this delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with ecns that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, nasdaq registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, llc and nasdaq option services, llc are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nyse and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec, the nyse and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. nasdaq has self-regulatory obligations and also operates for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on the nasdaq stock market and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our market by market participants and nasdaq-listed companies. the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although nasdaq outsources the majority of its market regulation functions to finra, nasdaq does perform regulatory functions related to its listed companies and its market. in addition, as part of nasdaq application for exchange registration, nasdaq agreed that 20% of the directors of its exchange subsidiary will be elected by members of the exchange rather than the equity holders of the subsidiary. any failure by nasdaq to diligently and fairly regulate its market or to otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. recent sec rulemaking has liberalized the foreign private issuer deregistration rules. in march 2007, the sec adopted rules that make it easier for foreign private issuers to deregister and terminate their sec reporting obligations. under the deregistration rule, a foreign private issuer can deregister equity securities if its average u.s. trading volume over a 12-month period represents 5% or less of its worldwide trading volume, so long as it meets certain requirements. once a foreign private issuer securities are deregistered and the issuer ceases its exchange act reporting, those securities are no longer eligible for trading on any public exchange in the u.s. as a result, we may face the loss of listing and trading services revenues associated with foreign private issuers who chose to deregister under the sec rules. 25 table of contents regulatory recognition of foreign exchanges may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities. under current u.s. federal securities laws, foreign exchanges seeking to operate in the u.s. must meet substantially all of the regulatory requirements we face. the sec has the authority to exempt foreign exchanges from these requirements and currently has granted one foreign exchange, tradepoint llc, an exemption based on low volume and other restrictions. consequently, virt-x exchange limited (the successor to tradepoint llc) is the only foreign exchange able to operate in the u.s. without meeting all the regulatory requirements we face. recently, the sec has begun discussing the possibility of reciprocal recognition of exchanges operating under comparable regulatory regimes. based on the extent and manner in which the sec pursues reciprocal recognition, there is a possibility that other foreign exchanges may enter the u.s. market without meeting all the regulatory requirements we meet. the entry of foreign exchanges into the u.s. market without complying with u.s. regulatory obligations would create additional competitive pressure on us, particularly in the trading of dual-listed foreign securities. the legal and regulatory environment in the united states may make it difficult for the nasdaq stock market to attract the secondary listings of non-u.s. companies. the nasdaq stock market competes to obtain the listing of non-u.s. issuer securities (in addition to the listing of u.s. issuer securities). however, the legal and regulatory environment in the united states, as well as the perception of this environment, has made and may continue to make it more difficult for nasdaq to attract these listings and may therefore adversely affect our competitive position. for example, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 imposes a stringent set of corporate governance, reporting and other requirements on publicly listed companies in the u.s. significant resources are necessary for issuers to come into and remain in compliance with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, which has had, and may continue to have, an impact on the ability of nasdaq to attract and retain listings. at the same time, international companies are increasingly seeking access to the u.s. markets through private transactions that do not require listing or trading in the u.s. public markets, such as through rule 144a transactions. non-u.s. issuers may choose to list with non-u.s. securities exchanges exclusively without a secondary listing in the united states because they perceive the u.s. regulatory requirements and the u.s. litigation environment as too cumbersome and costly. if nasdaq is unable to successfully attract the listing business of non-u.s. issuers, the perception of the nasdaq stock market as a premier listing venue may be diminished, and our competitive position may be adversely affected or our operating results could suffer. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. in particular, our subsidiary nasdaq execution services, llc may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services nasdaq execution services provides for our trading customers. system trades in nasdaq-listed securities, nyse-listed securities, amex-listed securities and trades routed to other market centers for exchange members are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of the national securities clearing corporation (nscc). pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limit and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc. nasdaq execution services has never incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market 26 table of contents participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who will be relied upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer and president, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. other than employment agreements with mr. greifeld and nasdaq general counsel, we do not have employment agreements with key executive officers, which would prevent them from leaving and competing with us. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities, and we and our broker-dealer affiliates could be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, and rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and other regulatory agencies. in addition, we are subject to liability under the laws of certain foreign jurisdictions. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, or claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. in addition, nasdaq is subject to oversight by the sec. the sec regularly examines nasdaq and its broker-dealer affiliates for compliance with nasdaq obligations under the securities laws. in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under those laws, nasdaq or its broker-dealer affiliates could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. 27 table of contents nasdaq has registered, or applied to register, its trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and has pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. nasdaq also maintains copyright protection on its nasdaq-branded materials and pursues patent protection for nasdaq-developed inventions and processes. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the quality of our corporate governance structure; and the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market information services business and the accuracy of calculations used by our financial products business for indexes and unit investment trusts. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchange, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchange or cause us to lose customers in our market information services or financial products businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. as of august 1, 2006, nasdaq is a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. as a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities. over the past three years, acquisitions including the acquisitions of inet and nasdaq execution services, llc (formerly brut, llc) and the proposed combination with omx and acquisitions of phlx and bsx have been (or, in the case of future acquisitions, are expected to be) significant factors in nasdaq growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt resulted in significant 28 table of contents incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with the credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. these equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we will account for the completion of our transactions with borse dubai and omx using the purchase method of accounting. we will allocate the total estimated purchase price to omx net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and non-amortized intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the transactions, record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the transactions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded by omx; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we will incur certain adjustments to reflect omx financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. we expect to incur costs associated with these transactions, including financial advisors fees and legal and accounting fees. in addition, we expect to incur costs associated with realizing synergies from the transactions. these costs may be substantial and may include those related to the severance and stock option acceleration provisions of employee benefit plans, as well as other exit costs. we face potential costs related to employee retention and deployment of physical capital and other integration costs. we have not yet determined the amount of these costs. we expect to account for costs directly related to the transactions, including financial advisors costs, legal and accounting fees and certain exit costs associated with omx operations as purchase related adjustments when the transactions are completed, as proscribed under u.s. gaap. these items will reduce cash balances for the periods in which these costs are paid. other costs that are not directly related to the transactions, including retention and integration costs, will be recorded as incurred and will negatively impact earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the price of our common stock. in addition, from the date of the completion of the transactions, our results of operations will include omx operating results, presented in accordance with u.s. gaap. omx historical consolidated financial 29 table of contents statements for 2004 through 2007 have been prepared in accordance with ifrs, which differ in certain material respects from u.s. gaap. for instance, u.s. gaap will require omx to recognize revenue under certain of its technology contracts over the term of the contract rather than at the beginning of the contract. accordingly, the u.s. gaap presentation of omx results of operations may not be comparable to its historical financial statements. our investment in difx may be unsuccessful and could harm us in other ways. we and borse dubai have agreed that in exchange for $50.0 million and the entry into certain licensing and technology agreements, we will acquire 33 1 /3% of the outstanding equity of difx. we have also committed to providing additional capital, up to $25.0 million, to difx under certain circumstances. our investment in difx may be unsuccessful. these investments are in addition to the maximum of approximately sek 12.6 billion in cash we may pay borse dubai for omx shares. additionally, these licensing and technology agreements will allow difx to use the nasdaq trademark and exchange technologies from both us and omx. difx use may have an adverse effect on us and our brand and other intellectual property. we may not be able to terminate these agreements or end our association with difx in a manner that would prevent lasting and potentially significant harm to our brand and reputation, particularly in certain key emerging markets. our agreements with difx will also prevent or limit us from seeking opportunities to grow our business in certain regions, and this may have a negative impact on us in the future. the market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the completion of the transactions with borse dubai and omx. the market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the completion of the transactions with borse dubai and omx if: the combination of nasdaq and omx businesses is unsuccessful; we do not achieve the expected benefits of the combination with omx as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; or the effect of the transactions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. the benefits of the combination of nasdaq and omx may not be achieved if we cannot effect the compulsory acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding omx shares. under swedish law, to effect the compulsory acquisition of omx shares for which valid acceptances have not been received, we are required to have acquired more than 90% of the outstanding omx shares. as a result, it is possible that we may not acquire a sufficient number of omx shares to effect a compulsory acquisition of the remaining outstanding omx shares. since, in this situation, omx would not be a wholly-owned subsidiary of nasdaq, this will prevent or delay us from realizing the anticipated benefits (including synergies) from the integration of our operations with omx operations by requiring transactions between omx and nasdaq to be on an arm s-length basis. we may be required to pay a higher price for some omx shares as a result of compulsory acquisition proceedings under swedish law. in the event that nasdaq obtains more than 90% of the omx shares, nasdaq intends to commence a compulsory acquisition procedure under the swedish companies act to acquire all remaining omx shares. the cost of the compulsory acquisition proceeding will be borne entirely by nasdaq. the purchase price for the omx shares acquired through a compulsory acquisition procedure will be determined by an arbitration tribunal. the swedish companies act provides that the purchase price for the 30 table of contents remaining omx shares will be equivalent to the value of the consideration paid by borse dubai in its offer for omx, unless there are any special circumstances at hand that call for a different price. it may take up to two years or more from initiation of the compulsory acquisition procedure until the arbitration tribunal decides on the purchase price. thereafter, the purchase price will be distributed to the shareholders whose omx shares were acquired through the compulsory acquisition procedure, together with interest earned at a market rate set by the swedish central bank pursuant to swedish law. nasdaq may elect to request advance title to the omx shares to be acquired in the compulsory acquisition procedure, in accordance with the swedish companies act. advance title means that full ownership is obtained by nasdaq with respect to the remaining omx shares before the arbitration proceedings regarding the purchase price have been completed. the arbitration tribunal granting of advance title would be subject to nasdaq providing satisfactory security for payment of the purchase price and the accrued interest thereon. as a result of the compulsory acquisition proceedings under swedish law, nasdaq may ultimately have to pay, in the aggregate, a higher price per omx share in order to purchase the remaining omx shares that are outstanding after completion of borse dubai offer for omx than it has agreed to pay to omx shareholders who tender through borse dubai offer. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2007, there were 138,869,150 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 4,610,258 options exercisable as of december 31, 2007 at a weighted average exercise price of $9.58. the number of shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our convertible 31 table of contents notes held by silver lake partners, or slp, and vab investors llc, or vab, and their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 8,283,162 shares of our common stock, or any exercise of warrants held by slp and vab or their respective affiliates, which are exercisable at a price of $14.50 per share into approximately 1,539,489 shares of our common stock. we have registered the shares underlying slp, vab and their affiliates notes and warrants on a form s-3 registration statement, and those shares are freely transferable. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and approved exchange rules, including provisions included to address sec concerns, and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, our exchange rules include a rule prohibiting any nasdaq member or any person associated with a nasdaq member from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. our exchange rules also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. in addition, our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 22 risk factors in this form 10-k. ii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: 2009 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of our recently acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives; the cost and availability of liquidity; the settlement of tax audits; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; our ability to successfully integrate our recently acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; loss of significant trading volume or listed companies; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; the current global economic and credit crises; government and industry regulation; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 . 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, exchange technology, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange. the nasdaq stock market is the largest electronic cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of number of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2008, the nasdaq stock market was home to over 3,000 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $2.6 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate nasdaq omx phlx, the third largest u.s. options market, the nasdaq options market, a second options market, nasdaq omx bx, a second cash equities trading market, and nasdaq omx futures exchange (formerly the philadelphia board of trade), or nfx, a futures market. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. in addition, we operate nasdaq omx europe, our new marketplace for pan-european blue chip trading, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, our new offering for trading and clearing commodities, and the armenian stock exchange. the exchanges that comprise nasadq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives. our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies. as of december 31, 2008, the exchanges within nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic were home to over 800 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $605 billion. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the financial industry regulatory authority, or finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. prior to operating as an exchange, the nasdaq stock market operated under an sec-approved plan that provided a delegation of legal authority from finra to the nasdaq stock market to operate as a stock market. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. prior to the combination, omx ab owned and operated the largest securities marketplace in northern europe. 2 table of contents recent acquisitions and strategic initiatives we believe that an exchange company scale and technology have become very important factors in maintaining a competitive advantage due to the liberalization and globalization of world markets and regulatory changes in the u.s. and europe. as a result, we recently completed several strategic acquisitions and investments that we believe further strengthen our competitive position. the combination with omx and strategic partnership with borse dubai limited. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai. the purchase price of omx ab was approximately $4.3 billion, consisting of an equity component and a cash component. we believe that the combination with omx ab created a premier global exchange company, bringing together complementary businesses, diversifying our operations, enhancing our existing product offerings and solidifying our leadership in global exchange technology. concurrently with the business combination with omx ab, we also acquired 33 1 / 3 % of the equity of the dubai international financial exchange, or difx, in exchange for a contribution of $50 million in cash and the entry into certain technology and trademark licensing agreements. difx, which has been renamed nasdaq dubai, is an international financial exchange serving the region between western europe and east asia. we believe that the strategic partnership with borse dubai and our investment in nasdaq dubai provide us with significant resources and valuable expertise in the growing middle eastern and north african financial markets, as well as enhance the globalization of the nasdaq omx brand name, further increasing strategic opportunities. in november 2008, we listed our common stock on nasdaq dubai. the acquisition of the philadelphia stock exchange. in july 2008, we completed our acquisition of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, expanding our presence in the derivatives market. the acquisition of phlx provided us with the third largest options market in the u.s. and with increased exposure to a fast growing asset class and diversification into an area adjacent to our core equity trading business. phlx, renamed nasdaq omx phlx, inc., operates as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market, our options platform that was launched in march 2008. with the acquisition of phlx and the launch of the nasdaq options market, we have substantially increased our footprint in global derivatives. as of december 31, 2008, we had a combined market share of approximately 17.3% in the trading of u.s. equity options. the acquisition of the boston stock exchange. we closed the acquisition of the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx, in august 2008. the bsx acquisition provided us with an additional license for trading both equities and options and a clearing license. we used the bsx license to create a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx, which was launched in january 2009. with nasdaq omx bx, we offer a second quote within the u.s. equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. we have been able to leverage our inet trading system, which runs the nasdaq stock market, to operate nasdaq omx bx, providing customers an additional fast and efficient cash equities market. we have announced plans to launch a clearing service for u.s. cash equities, using the clearing license obtained in the acquisition of bsx. the new clearinghouse, to be called nasdaq clearing corporation (ncc), is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to launch in 2009. the acquisition of certain businesses from nord pool asa. in october 2008, we acquired nord pool asa clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries. as a result of the acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. nasdaq omx commodities, together with third party partner nord pool, provides access to the world largest power derivatives markets and one of europe largest carbon markets. the acquisition of a majority interest in international derivatives clearing group. in december 2008, we acquired an 81% interest in the international derivatives clearing group, or idcg, and idcg became an 3 table of contents independently operated subsidiary of nasdaq omx. idcg has been granted approval by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, to clear over-the-counter, or otc, interest rate swap futures contracts and other fixed income derivatives contracts. in december 2008, idcg began providing central counterparty, or ccp, clearing for interest rate swap products through its clearinghouse subsidiary, international derivatives clearinghouse, llc, or idch. nfx is serving as the designated contract market for trading of these interest rate swap products. investment in emcf. in january 2009, we acquired a 22% stake in european multilateral clearing facility n.v., or emcf, a leading european clearing house. in addition, we signed an agreement with emcf to use its ccp services for all nordic transactions. the strategic investment in emcf and the introduction of ccp services in the nordic markets is part of our broader commitment to reducing clearing and settlement costs for customers in europe. investment in agora-x. in 2008, we acquired a 20% equity interest in agora-x, llc. agora-x has launched an electronic communications network, or ecn, designed to enable institutional traders to efficiently negotiate otc transactions in agricultural swaps and swaptions, as well as swaps and options on ethanol. the platform provides a more liquid and transparent marketplace for price discovery and negotiation. competitive strengths premier global exchange company. we are a premier global exchange company that is the largest electronic cash equities market in terms of share volume traded in the world. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2008, the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic had an average daily trading volume of 12.3 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $25.2 trillion. in addition, across our markets, we had over 3,800 listings representing 38 countries as of december 31, 2008. we have many of the world largest companies listed on our marketplaces, with a leading market share of listings in the information technology, biotech and paper product industries. our wholly-owned subsidiary the nasdaq stock market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the u.s. leader in global exchange technology. we believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. as the world first electronic stock exchange, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 30 years. our inet platform processes trades at sub-millisecond transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. in addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at twice the level of daily peaks, allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. furthermore, through omx ab, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including china (hong kong), singapore, australia and the u.s. we believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms. diversified operations and products. we have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. the recent acquisitions of omx, phlx and bsx, the strong derivatives exchange business of our options markets, the launch of nasdaq omx commodities and our recent investments in idcg, emcf and agora-x have significantly diversified our product offerings. in addition, our recently launched pan-european market, named nasdaq omx europe, and our offerings in derivatives clearing and settlement further diversify our product offerings and enhance our growth opportunities in europe. proven and disciplined management team. we have a proven and disciplined management team that has substantial industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. led by robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, our executive management team has significant experience in the financial 4 table of contents services industry. the combination with omx ab brought the addition of magnus b&ouml;cker, our president and previously the president and chief executive officer of omx ab. we believe the nasdaq omx management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities. commitment to regulatory integrity. as a global exchange company, our business is subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. we are charged by regulators with maintaining fair and orderly markets for the benefit of investors and we work to fulfill this obligation in several ways. we have entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. in addition, we operate real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring and enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. we are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the nasdaq omx brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets. products and services we operate in three segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. of our total 2008 revenues of $3,648.7 million, 87.9% was from our market services segment, 9.1% was from our issuer services segment, 2.9% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our total 2007 revenues of $2,436.6 million, 88.3% was from our market services segment and 11.7% was from our issuer services segment. of our total 2006 revenues of $1,657.8 million, 84.9% was from our market services segment and 15.1% was from our issuer services segment. see note 21, segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. u.s. transaction services in the u.s., we offer trading in equity securities, derivatives and etfs on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx and nfx. our transaction-based platforms in the u.s. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equities and derivatives. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. equities trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of 30% of all u.s. equities volume for 2008. the nasdaq stock market also is a significant source of liquidity for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, closing 2008 with 20% matched market share of nyse-listed securities. our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platform provides members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes on the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, ecns and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platform: provides a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). 5 table of contents provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross, ipo cross and the intraday cross. provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. trade reporting. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for nyse-listed, nyse alternext-listed and other exchange-listed securities. through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades result from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and are submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf does not charge market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it does earn shared market information revenues with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. u.s. derivatives trading. with the recent acquisition of phlx and the launch of the nasdaq options market, we have strengthened our position in the u.s. marketplace for the trading of equity options, index options and currency options. the nasdaq options market, which was launched in march 2008, is designed to leverage our existing technology, customer connectivity and market structure. in the third quarter of 2008, we acquired phlx, providing us with the third largest u.s. options market in the u.s. renamed nasdaq omx phlx, it operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market. as of december 31, 2008, nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market had a combined market share of 17.3% in the u.s. equity options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors and high frequency trading firms, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often prefer to trade on the floor. in the u.s., we also operate nfx which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. all futures traded on nfx clear at the options clearing corporation, or occ. in addition, nfx is serving as the designated contract market for interest rate swap products that are cleared through idch. access services. we provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. the financial information exchange product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading 6 table of contents firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. market participants may also access our systems using qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. finally, firms may use former inet protocols, such as ouch and rash, to access our single trading platform. as an alternative to firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the nasdaq workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. the nasdaq stock market also provides co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also offer our customers memberships to our multiple exchanges for an annual and monthly fee. european transaction services nordics. nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the exchanges offer trading for equities and bonds and trading and clearing services for derivatives. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and one source for nordic market data. cash trading is offered in nordic securities such as equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products. nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen also offer trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the central counterparty. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for certain over-the-counter contracts. the transactions are reported electronically prior to central counterparty clearing and we thereby guarantee the completion of the transaction. following the completion of a transaction, settlement takes place between parties with the exchange of the securities and funds. the transfer of ownership is registered and the securities are stored on the owner behalf. settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden and finland via the local central securities depositories. pan-european. nasdaq omx europe is a new marketplace designed for high performance trading of the most actively traded european stocks. it currently is the most competitively priced multilateral trading facility in europe, and the first platform to connect european liquidity pools with pan-european routing. as of december 31, 2008, nasdaq omx europe traded approximately 800 securities including constituents of the main european indices, etfs and other highly liquid securities. baltics. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). we hold a majority interest in these exchanges. in addition, we own the central securities depositories in estonia and latvia, and 40% of the central securities depository in lithuania. in the baltic markets, nasdaq omx exchanges offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. 7 table of contents commodities trading and clearing. nasdaq omx commodities, together with our third party partner nord pool, provides access to the world largest power derivatives markets and one of europe largest carbon markets. nasdaq omx commodities offers international derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. nord pool is responsible for exchange operations and trading activities, including ownership of nordic derivatives products. nasdaq omx commodities and nord pool have more than 400 members from 22 countries across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. with nasdaq omx commodities, our goal is to create a global leader in energy derivatives and carbon products, by combining nord pool footprint in the energy market with nasdaq omx global distribution capabilities and world-leading technology platform. as a global company, we are in the position to offer cross-market trading in multiple asset classes, and also expect to introduce new commodity products to our existing portfolio. the nasdaq omx commodities offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industry, manufacturing and oil companies. market data we earn market data revenues from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european market data products. u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market also is a participant in the utp plan and shares in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors and the data distributors then sell to the public. after deducting costs associated with acting as an exclusive securities information processor, we distribute the tape fees to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse alternext-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and nyse alternext-listed securities. u.s. market data products. our data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to the professional and non-professional marketplace. we collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our market data. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 2,000 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer a totalview enterprise license to facilitate broad based distribution of this data to large audiences. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. 8 table of contents we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq last sale, launched in 2008, to provide broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals; nasdaq market replay, launched in 2008, as a powerful replay and analysis tool allowing users to view order book and trade data for nasdaq, nyse and nyse alternext listed securities at any point in time; nasdaq omx datastore, one aspect of nasdaq omx web 2.0 initiative to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content; mutual fund quotation service, a listing service for over 25,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; mutual fund dissemination service, a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds listed with us; global index dissemination service, a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs, developed in 2008 for release in 2009; and nasdaq omx trader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data vendors with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as open, closing, halt and ipo crosses) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee. european market data products. nordic and baltic market data products and services provide critical market transparency to the professional and non-professional investors that participate in the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. information products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic for three classes of securities: equities, bonds and derivatives instruments. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. revenues from european market data are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. significant european market data products include: nordic equity totalview provides full market insight, with 20 level order book, news and analysis data for all nordic equities. the product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators; nordic derivative level 2 provides listing details, trade information, derived information and order book information with the five best levels of bid and ask prices with the respective total quantity; nordic fixed income level 2 provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures; 9 table of contents corporate action and accounting data; and european last sale, launched in 2008 (along with the nasdaq last sale product in the u.s.), to provide broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market and in the united kingdom. the primary services include flexible back-office systems. our services allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group over 3,800 companies representing $3.2 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2008. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. as a strategic partner in dubai international financial exchange, nasdaq omx facilitates access to issuers to the middle eastern capital markets through nasdaq dubai. in addition, we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on any nasdaq omx market, including the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. global listing services u.s. listings. companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including telecommunication services and information technology, financial services, healthcare, consumer products, industrials and energy. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing) and issuers listing on these markets have the opportunity to leverage an array of nasdaq omx corporate services. as of december 31, 2008, a total of 3,023 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,288 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 1,222 on the nasdaq global market and 513 on the nasdaq capital market. 10 table of contents we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2008, the nasdaq stock market attracted 177 new listings. included in these listings were 13 ipos, almost 46% of the total u.s. ipos in 2008. the new listings were comprised of the following: new listings on the nasdaq stock market 177 switches from nyse/nyse alternext and dual listings 61 ipos 13 upgrades from over-the-counter bulletin board (otcbb) 45 etfs, structured products and other listings 58 in 2008, the following nine nyse-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing $129.9 billion in market capitalization: news corporation, automatic data processing, inc., ca, inc., cme group inc., jack in the box inc., celera corporation, mylan inc., seagate technology and global-tech advanced innovations inc. a total of 51 companies switched from the american stock exchange (now renamed nyse alternext) to the nasdaq stock market in 2008. we charge issuers an initial listing fee, a listing of additional shares fee and an annual renewal fee. the initial listing fee for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. the fee for listing of additional shares is based on the total shares outstanding, which we review quarterly. annual renewal fees for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market are based on total shares outstanding. nordic and baltic listings. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. as of december 31, 2008, a total of 824 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges. measured in terms of the market capitalization of listed companies, as of december 31, 2008, nasdaq omx nordic was the largest marketplace in europe for it companies, the largest marketplace in the world for the paper industry, the second largest marketplace in the world for apparel retail and third largest marketplace in the world for industrial machinery. our european listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments that issue and list securities on the exchanges of nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. customers issue securities in the forms of equities and depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds and other fixed-income related products. in 2008, a total of 31 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. nasdaq omx first north added 17 new companies in 2008. corporate services. our corporate services business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. through our corporate services offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and services that facilitate transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we provide corporate services in key areas of focus: investor relations . we provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. market monitoring . we offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance. in november 2008, we acquired bloom partners, a leading market intelligence firm, enhancing our market monitoring services. 11 table of contents board practice . we offer board member recruiting and management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness. global visibility . we provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our marketsite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies. risk management. we provide offerings intended to assist companies in risk management through our corporate insurance brokerage subsidiary offering executive liability risk management services. portal and the portal alliance. in addition to traditional public offerings, sec rule 144a provides public and private companies with another option for effectively raising capital at a lower cost and with fewer regulatory hurdles. we have managed the process to designate sec rule 144a unregistered securities as portal securities since 1990. in late 2007, we and a group of leading securities firms announced our intention to form the portal alliance, an open, industry-standard 144a equity trading platform with the goal of providing a better market for investors and issuers. the portal alliance members intend to develop a neutral process for investor qualification and tracking of transaction settlement and dissemination of issuer and trading information for rule 144a securities. the portal alliance is expected to launch in 2009. global index group we are one of the world leading index providers. we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index business. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq omx brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on assets, number or underlying dollar value of contracts issued. in addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, which enhances our ability to attract new u.s. listings. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial companies listed on the nasdaq stock market. with the addition in 2008 of omx and phlx, we now have nearly 2,000 diverse indexes, with 53 launched in 2008. nasdaq omx indexes are the basis for over 1,000 financial products in 37 countries. in 2008, we licensed 16 new etfs based on nasdaq omx indexes. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. market technology technology solutions. we are the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, alternative trading venues and clearing organizations. the systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing and settlement and information dissemination for many types of instruments, ranging from equities to complex derivative products. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including currencies, different types of interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. in addition to systems solutions, we offer advisory services, facility management and systems integration and operations and support of all components included in a turn-key information technology solution for a marketplace. we currently manage operations for 17 marketplaces and our solutions enable efficient securities transactions for more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries, including markets operated by nasdaq omx. we are able to offer our customers analysis and advisory services on efficiency, as well as operational security and support in the creation of regional marketplaces. our trading solutions are sold throughout the world and are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues and banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. our platforms are designed to meet client requirements as well as ensure the highest level of availability, security and reliability. nasdaq 12 table of contents omx trading solutions are utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, international securities exchange, or ise, plus markets group, six swiss exchange, singapore exchange and wiener b&ouml;rse. in the post trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. we also offer the systems for handling the administration of securities in securities depositories. these systems have been designed to be able to communicate with various trading systems and with other clearing or securities systems. clearing and settlement solution customers include the australian securities exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing and wiener b&ouml;rse. we offer standardized systems for disseminating raw data, such as prices, trades and order amounts, and refined data, such as indexes, to meet the extensive need for data for trading. our information dissemination solution customers include icap, ise, singapore exchange and wiener b&ouml;rse. systems integration, operation and support. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. this service is based on our many years of experience in operating marketplaces and implementing change projects involving technical infrastructure. through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. by transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. at the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure. advisory services. our advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. operating our own exchanges and in partnering with global technology customers, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. we understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of nasdaq omx as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry. research and development. we continuously develop our product offering to ensure our position as a market leader and driving force in the exchange industry. investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. this year we introduced a new technology roadmap for our next generation trading system, genium. the roadmap builds on nasdaq omx combined experience and insight gained from operating exchanges and in supporting the operations of more than 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories around the world. two key assets will be leveraged to realize the new roadmap: inet, currently used by nasdaq omx for the u.s. equities markets and nasdaq omx europe. delivering sub-millisecond transaction speeds, the inet system is proven in handling trading volumes of more than five billion shares daily and routinely handles over 268,000 messages per second. click, the world most widespread trading system for integrated derivatives and equity trading, today powers derivatives trading on the exchanges of nasdaq omx nordic and leading markets around the world, including australian securities exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, icap, ise, and singapore exchange. click also offers integrated clearing functionality through secur. genium has been designed not only to be the world fastest trading system, but also to combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to more efficiently manage change and create new advantages 13 table of contents to existing and new customers. the foundation for genium is a common service delivery platform built for the exchange industry. it provides high performance transaction handling and availability as well as common functional features, like reference data and session management. the platform is based on industry standard operating environments and holds unified models for business and technical operations. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. an example of the registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, secur, click xt and exigo. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for nasdaq omx-developed inventions and processes. our patent department focuses on gaining patent protection for the software functionality that we develop in order for us to fully benefit from our research and development investments. our patent department accomplishes this through the evaluation of inventions, the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications for inventions deemed worthwhile to pursue, the maintenance of granted patents, the coordination of information within the organization about patents and the monitoring of competitors for possible use of patented information. competition market services. the equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in the u.s. against nyse euronext, bats exchange, regional exchanges and ecns. in europe, our major competitors include nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, the spanish exchanges and six swiss exchange. we also compete globally with other major exchanges around the world, including the tokyo stock exchange, the korea exchange, the hong kong stock exchange, the singapore stock exchange, the shanghai stock exchange, the sydney stock exchange, the bombay stock exchange, the sao paolo stock exchange and the toronto stock exchange. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board or otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. in bond trading, we compete in europe with alternative marketplaces such as mts. for derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place through otc trading, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. the competitive significance in europe of these varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and cost of trade execution. equity securities trading. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as ecns active in the equity trade execution business attract market participants investment and become exchanges or acquire regional exchanges. additional new entrants may emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of equity order volume through aggressive pricing and from volume originating with broker-dealer investors. in 14 table of contents addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. also, regional exchanges, such as the international securities exchange, have agreed to be acquired by ecns, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges. the european landscape is in its early days of adapting to the competitive forces released by mifid in november 2007. throughout europe new multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, are being created with the most prominent mtfs (chi-x, turquoise, nasdaq omx europe, and bats) launching in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as markit boat, or boat, have also been launched. boat is currently the largest market trading reporting platform in europe. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in europe and are looking to grow their businesses under mifid. finally, smaller existing exchanges such as plus markets and the berliner boerse are looking to enter new markets and expand their businesses. in the nordics, a new mtf, burgundy, has indicated that it intends to launch in 2009. these entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as in the u.s., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation, and pursuit of exchange status. because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges is clearly rising. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. derivatives. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, or cboe, ise, nyse arca, nyse alternext and the boston options exchange, or box. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. nasdaq omx operates two exchanges with different market structures. nasdaq omx phlx operates a pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with cboe, ise and nyse alternext. as a result of this competition, nasdaq omx phlx added new functionality aimed at retail customers and reduced fees for our largest customers. the nasdaq options market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with nyse arca and the box. the nasdaq options market competes primarily by providing meaningful price improvement to incoming orders and by offering a fast, stable trading system. during 2008, the nasdaq options market increased the rebate it pays to liquidity providers on price improving execution to encourage price improvement. mifid does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with eurex, liffe, edx and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. new competition in this area is expected to come from project rainbow, a new dealer-sponsored derivative multi-lateral facility. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. bilateral and ccp-like innovations such as nyse euronext bclear and best-execution services (best) which is a collaboration between the dutch market two largest providers of liquidity, binckbank and optiver are also creating increasing competition for derivatives, mainly in the otc and 15 table of contents covered warrants markets. we market nasdaq omx market operations, and trading and clearing services to these new entrants. as trading in europe evolves under mifid, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition requires us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. clearing. in both the u.s. and europe, equity clearing has been organized along national lines. typically, a single clearing house would serve essentially all equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation borders. some countries, such as sweden, do not have a clearing house at all. in some countries such as the u.s., the clearing house is part of the same organization as the central securities depository, or csd. in some, such as germany, the clearing house and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others such as the u.k., the clearing house, exchange, and csd are separate. furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using ccp services in european clearing than in the u.s. regardless of past practice, competition is beginning to come to clearing in response to the european code of conduct in clearing and settlement in europe and initiatives by nasdaq omx in the u.s. at this time, competition in clearing remains limited with a few new non-national clearing houses such as emcf, x-clear and euroccp being launched in europe to serve non-national multilateral trading facilities. our announced intention that the nasdaq omx nordic exchanges will introduce a non-national central counterparty to our markets may spur competition for clearing services in europe. in the u.s., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the u.s. a viable possibility. should clearing competition become a vibrant reality in the u.s. or europe it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution. we believe that clearing in both the u.s. and europe will benefit from competition and intend to compete actively for clearing business. market data services. our revenues from the sale of market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by the nasdaq stock market and other exchanges. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse- and nyse alternext-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq market center. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. in january 2008, we again changed the terms of the program. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. the sale of our proprietary products are under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products at a lower price or free of charge. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants could price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to 16 table of contents provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to a rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. listing and corporate services. our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse alternext for listing of smaller companies. competition for listings in europe relates to the exchange choices available to companies considering a new or secondary listing. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b&ouml;rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with smaller market capitalizations. in europe, our main competitors for our company news service, a comprehensive communication service for listed companies on the nasdaq omx nordic exchanges, are cision and hugin, the latter of which is owned by nyse euronext. indexes. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which can be considered competitive with nasdaq omx indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market technology. many exchanges, clearing organizations and securities depositories have traditionally developed their own technology systems for trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination internally, often assisted by consulting companies and local suppliers of components. the competitive landscape is changing and the implementation of third party solutions is growing more popular. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including nyse euronext, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. 17 table of contents the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. while we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company, these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. regulation of u.s. exchanges. with the registration of the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. with the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange, we acquired additional sro licenses. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by finra. broker-dealers may choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx or nasdaq omx bx in addition to their other sro memberships, including membership in finra. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to the sec oversight, as prescribed by the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules, to the sec. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file all proposals for a change in their pricing structure with the sec. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the exchange act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. nasdaq omx currently operates two equities and two options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license, the nasdaq omx bx equities market, launched in january 2009, pursuant to the nasdaq omx bx sro license, and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to the nasdaq omx phlx sro license. in addition, nasdaq omx bx regulates box pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of nasdaq omx bx and box. nasdaq omx does not have an ownership interest in box, and we are compensated by box based on the cost of the regulatory services we provide to box. finra provides regulatory services to the equities and options markets of the nasdaq stock market and, once fully implemented in march 2009, the markets operated or regulated by nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring rulemaking and certain membership functions through our marketwatch department. suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the nasdaq stock market and the markets operated and regulated by nasdaq omx bx is referred to finra for further investigation. 18 table of contents the regulatory group within nasdaq omx phlx handles all regulatory operations for its options market, which trades options on equity securities, indexes, etfs, and world currencies. the nasdaq omx phlx options marketplace combines its highly sophisticated trading technology with a physical trading floor where the on-floor surveillance department monitors the open-outcry hybrid environment on a real time basis and acts in the capacity of options exchange officials, rendering decisions on trade-related rulings. subsequently, the options reviews department performs all non-real-time trading analysis and surveillance. nasdaq omx phlx also has an examinations department that conducts routine inspections of its member firms and monitors their financial condition for net capital requirements. these departments then refer unusual or suspicious activity to the investigations department that develops cases and ultimately to the enforcement department that prosecutes violations of exchange rules and applicable federal securities laws. as of february 2009, nasdaq omx phlx does not use finra for any material regulatory services besides the joint industry agreements and rule 17d-2 agreements discussed below. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq market center to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, nyse, nyse alternext, nyse arca, finra, bats exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, ise and the national stock exchange. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, finra, nyse alternext, box, ise and nyse arca. the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. nyse is nasdaq execution services current dea and finra is nasdaq options services dea. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of such capital requirements. 19 table of contents regulatory contractual relationships with finra. the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros, including some of the regulatory services we perform for box. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above. finra bills us a fee for each required service. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets, including nasdaq omx phlx, have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance, but our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which we are relieved of regulatory responsibility: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of members of the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx; joint industry agreements with finra and nyse regulation covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable equity or options order. cftc regulation. with the acquisition of phlx, we also acquired its subsidiary, nasdaq omx futures exchange, inc. (formerly pbot), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act. as a designated contract market, nfx is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. nfx currently lists trading futures contracts on stock indexes, foreign currencies and interest rate swaps. the national futures association provides certain regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. the cftc also regulates idch, a designated clearing organization under the commodity exchange act that is wholly owned by idcg. idch clears interest rate swap futures contracts listed by nfx. nfa also provides regulatory services to idch. european regulation recent directives from the european union have focused on the harmonization of regulation with respect to financial services, offering, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. these directives are in turn providing opportunities for companies such ours. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to use our position in the industry to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. one such opportunity that has been utilized is the approval of our multilateral trading facility, nasdaq omx europe, in the u.k. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separated from the business operations. our 20 table of contents surveillance consists of three surveillance departments, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark, and separate surveillance functions at nasdaq omx iceland. these departments are in turn organized into two groups or functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. currently, there are two surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one in sweden and one in finland. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx nordic copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. we continue the harmonization of the structure and processes for market regulation in the nordic region. when nasdaq omx nordic was launched, the listing requirements for our exchanges in sweden, denmark and finland were harmonized. nasdaq omx iceland adopted the harmonized requirements in april 2007. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa, while nasdaq omx stockholm role as central counterparty in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks which may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest which may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with 21 table of contents trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. as mentioned above, this function is carried out by our surveillance division, which consists of three separate departments at each of the exchanges in stockholm, copenhagen and helsinki, as well as separate surveillance functions at the exchanges on iceland and in the baltic states. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2008, we had 2,507 employees, of which 1,149 were based in the u.s. and 1,358 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 141 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information, then click on sec filings. we intend to use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under sec regulation fd. these disclosures will be included on our website under investor relations events and presentations. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business we may not be able to successfully integrate our recently acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we continue to rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our recently acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming 22 table of contents and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in both the u.s. and europe, which may be different from each other; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among the combined companies; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; the integration of the respective businesses, operations and workforces; unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our recent acquisitions. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we currently anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the recent acquisitions. the global financial and credit market crises are ongoing and may adversely affect our business. ongoing global financial turmoil has reduced the availability, and increased the cost, of credit and capital and reduced the value of financial assets. the economy has entered a recession. we continue to monitor the effects on our business of these events . the ongoing turmoil could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. for example, the consequences of a prolonged recession may include a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes and market technology. 23 table of contents we will need to invest in our operations to integrate our recent acquisitions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facility, if the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate our recently acquired businesses. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate the recently acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in the indenture governing our notes or our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2008 was approximately $2.5 billion. in connection with the closing of our business combination with omx ab on february 27, 2008, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, including the issuance of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013 and the borrowing of $1,050.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. on july 24, 2008 in connection with our acquisition of phlx, we borrowed an additional $650.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. on august 27, 2008, in connection with our acquisition of certain businesses of nord pool, we borrowed an additional $300.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. we may also borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our 24 table of contents credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged. a decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. the current recession may reduce trading volumes across our markets. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. declines in volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures. current economic conditions could adversely affect our market data revenues. market data revenues may be significantly affected by the global economic and credit markets crises. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk due to the extensive layoffs and staff reductions announced throughout the financial services industry. as these reductions occur, we may see significant reductions in our professional user revenue from our market data. while volatility in the markets may help the non-professional segment of our market data subscribers, the global loss of wealth and the steep decline in markets may cause a reduction in the number of non-professional investors who leave their investments in the market. therefore, we may see a declining population of non-professional investors, which could result in lower non-professional subscriptions to our market data. declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the pace of initial public offerings has declined to levels not seen since the 1970s. the outlook for recovery in the market for initial public offerings is closely tied to the availability of risk capital which may not return to historic levels for some time following the 2008 credit crisis. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. the global economic turmoil may affect the ability of our listed companies to comply with our listing requirements. global economic conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. for example, companies listed on the nasdaq stock market are required to achieve at least a $1 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days, and listed companies are also required to comply with thresholds regarding the market level of their publicly held shares. given the current extraordinary market conditions, the nasdaq stock market has temporarily suspended these requirements, with the approval of the sec, until april 19, 2009. if global economic conditions do not improve by this deadline and we are unable to further extend the suspension of our listing requirements, we may see an increase in companies delisting from our markets, either voluntarily or involuntarily. a reduction in the number of our listed companies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents the securities market business is highly competitive. we face competition from numerous entities in the securities market industry, including competition for trading services, listings, and indexes from other exchanges and market centers. this competition includes both product and price competition and could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges and market centers in the united states and europe. in addition, the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. in response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both europe and the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. examples of these new competitive forces include: the creation of nyse euronext, inc. in april 2007 and its subsequent acquisition of amex; ecns operating in the u.s. cash equities trading market, such as direct edge and lava flow; new u.s. exchanges, such as bats; the announced acquisition of the equity exchange business of the international securities exchange by the direct edge ecn; the combination of deutsche b&ouml;rse ag and international securities exchange holdings, inc.; active alternative equity trading platforms in europe such as equiduct, chi-x, turquoise, bats and plus markets; active alternative trade reporting platforms in europe such as reuters trade publication and markit boat; a number of investment banks have announced a multilateral trading facility in the nordic region, also known as burgundy; a number of investment banks have announced alternative derivative trading platforms in europe such as rainbow and best; the announced launch of multilateral equity trading facilities in europe backed by incumbent exchanges, such as baikal and nyse arca europe, by the lse and nyse euronext, respectively; the trend toward partial re-mutualization, whereby exchanges, ecns, and multilateral trading facilities have investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry; the globalization of electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform; and global electronic interdealer brokers, such as icap. because of these market trends, we face intense competition. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. 26 table of contents price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices and in the u.s. increased market data rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which adversely impacts operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and multilateral trading facilities. the securities trading industry also competes with respect to the pricing of market data. in addition, we are subject to price competition with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer market data rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. the success of competitors for trade executions, pressure from users for lower data fees and regulatory changes could also affect our non-u.s. market data business. our u.s. trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with finra for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facility operated jointly with finra by the nyse. our u.s. trade reporting facility also faces competition from finra alternative display facility. our competitors market data rebate programs for trade reporting could lead to a loss of market share and decreased revenues. we face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions and trade reporting revenues and negatively impact our financial results. the nasdaq stock market competes for trading of securities listed on nasdaq, nyse and nyse alternext. any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in the u.s. through other exchanges, ecns or the alternative display facility maintained by finra, could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through our platform. in particular, nyse euronext has enhanced its electronic trading capabilities, which compete directly with ours and may result in nyse euronext trading volume increasing to our detriment. the acquisition of amex enhances nyse euronext scale in u.s. options, etfs, closed-end funds, structured products and cash equities. if nyse euronext or any other competitor succeeds in attracting disproportionately more trading volume, this may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and our multilateral trading facility, nasdaq omx europe, also compete for the trading of securities. any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in europe through another regulated market or multilateral trading facility could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and through nasdaq omx europe. the implementation of mifid increases competition for quoting, trade execution and reporting revenues in europe. our competitive position could be adversely affected by legislation and regulation implementing mifid, which required all european union countries to have mifid regulation in force by november 1, 2007. mifid is intended to create a unified european financial services market, with common regulation regarding investments and trading in european union countries. mifid enables greater transparency and competition among exchanges (regulated markets), investment firms and banks that internalize their order flow (systematic internalizers), and multilateral trading facilities. mifid encourages competition for quotation, trade execution, trade reporting and market data distribution and introduces a european-wide requirement for best execution by requiring investment firms to establish and publish execution policies for all traded instruments. 27 table of contents mifid provides that trades may be executed on regulated markets, on multilateral trading facilities via over-the-counter trading or through systematic internalization. as a result, mifid creates an opportunity for exchanges, new multilateral trading facilities, over-the-counter and internalization arrangements to be developed on either a single country or a pan-european basis, thereby removing entry barriers and facilitating entry of alternative off-exchange trading facilities and increasing the attractiveness of such alternative facilities to users. in addition, investment firms will have to ensure that they obtain the best execution conditions for their clients, and will therefore have to direct orders to the most favorable execution venue, without any regulatory incentive to favor established regulated markets. taken together, these changes to the regulatory environment are making it easier for multilateral trading facilities to establish themselves in europe as low-cost alternatives to regulated exchanges, thereby increasing the level of competition with and between market operators. the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic face competition from other exchanges as well as from multilateral trading facilities and alternative trading systems, and this competition may intensify in the near future especially as technological advances create pressure to reduce the costs of trading. increased competition from alternative trading facilities and operators could cause us to lose market share or to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, either of which could lead to lower revenues and/or lower margins, harming profitability. the market data business faces significant competitive threats. the quality of our market data products is closely related to our transactions business. maintaining or increasing our transactions market share in all our operating environments is important to the success of many of our market data products. in addition, our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants could price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to a rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses. we must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses from other exchanges. nyse euronext recent mergers and acquisitions has created a strong competitor of the nasdaq stock market for listings of larger domestic and international companies. the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic face competition from various european exchanges. in addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from our markets to other venues. while the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease our listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers securities. our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for indexes, associated derivatives and other financial products. we have grown the business of our global index group, which creates indexes and licenses them for nasdaq omx branded financial products. these financial products are subject to intense competition from other etfs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors financial products and/or indexes designed to replicate or 28 table of contents correlate with the performance of our indexes. in addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing of these indexes, has changed in a manner that may adversely impact our ability to successfully license our indexes. further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce indexes that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for market technology. we have a significant market technology business, which provides technology, operating, and advisory services for exchanges and markets around the world. the technology business is subject to intense competition from other exchanges, specialized market technology companies, and large generalized technology providers. our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors whose offerings may be technologically superior, more attractively priced, or offer strategic benefits not directly related to product performance. further, any intellectual property protections we may have on our market technologies may not be adequate to prevent key employees from departing and entering into direct competition with us. in addition, the legal and regulatory constraints on technology exports may limit which market technologies we can offer for sale. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 29 table of contents we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platforms fail to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. nasdaq and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. if our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities, and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. in the u.s., we are subject to oversight by the sec, and our subsidiaries nfx and idcg are subject to oversight by the cftc. in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under either the securities or commodities laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. our non-u.s. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the european union level. implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. if a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked. 30 table of contents some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. our business is subject to extensive regulation. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in nasdaq rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with ecns that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, llc and nasdaq option services, llc are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nyse and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec, the nyse and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as operating exchanges or csds. the countries in which we currently operate regulated businesses are sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, armenia, switzerland and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold minority stakes in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-u.s. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 table of contents regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to the global economic crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, in the past few months, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis. during the next year, it is likely that there will be significant changes in our regulatory environment, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec, the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa, and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our market participants to use the nasdaq stock market, our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe or could adversely affect the nasdaq stock market, our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe. regulatory changes by the sec, the sfsa or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on the nasdaq stock market, our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although the nasdaq stock market and, once fully implemented in march 2009, the markets operated or regulated by nasdaq omx bx, outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic also monitor trading on those exchanges and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to maintain confidence in the exchanges among the general public. the monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. regulatory changes may have an adverse impact on our market data fees. a significant percentage of our market data revenue in the u.s. is derived from products subject to the three consolidated market information plans. as the formulas governing revenue allocations by those plans are subject to regulatory oversight, our revenue from the plans is at risk to any change in u.s. regulatory policy. in europe, active regulatory discussions about the distribution of exchange information through consolidated plans may lead to policy decisions which negatively our market data revenues. we are exposed to counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets. we clear a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts 32 table of contents will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, our high leverage could limit our flexibility in the operation of our clearing business. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services provides for our trading customers. system trades in nasdaq-listed securities, nyse-listed securities and trades routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is also liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. in addition, through our nasdaq omx stockholm clearing operations, we act as a counterparty in each transaction and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave, 33 table of contents and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, and magnus b&ouml;cker, our president, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key executive officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; security breaches, including any unauthorized delivery of proprietary data to third parties or physical security breaches; management of our outsourcing partnerships, especially our relationship with finra; and any misconduct or fraudulent activity by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. 34 table of contents damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past year, our business combination with omx ab, as well as our acquisitions of phlx, bsx, certain businesses of nord pool and bloom partners have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. these equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. 35 table of contents our non-u.s. business operates in various emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of orders will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., several of the nordic and baltic markets, the u.k. and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the swedish krona, danish krone, icelandic kr&oacute;na, norwegian krone, british pound sterling, euro, u.s. dollar and other foreign currencies. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. our investment in nasdaq dubai may be unsuccessful and could harm us in other ways. in exchange for $50 million and the entry into certain licensing and technology agreements, we have acquired 33 1 / 3 % of the outstanding equity of nasdaq dubai. we have also committed to providing additional capital of up to $25 million to nasdaq dubai under certain circumstances. our investment in nasdaq dubai may not result in a return. additionally, the licensing and technology agreements we have entered into with nasdaq dubai may have an adverse effect on our brand and on us. we may not be able to terminate these agreements or end our association with nasdaq dubai in a manner that would prevent lasting and potentially significant harm to our brand and reputation, particularly in certain key emerging markets. our agreements with nasdaq dubai also prevent or limit us from seeking opportunities to grow our business in certain regions, and this may have a negative impact on us in the future. we may incur goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2008, goodwill totaled approximately $5.4 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.8 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we are required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. we assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an 36 table of contents asset may not be recovered. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. however, disruptions to our business, such as continued economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment test for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future. for goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. for indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and non-amortized intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we will incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. we have incurred costs associated with the acquisitions, including financial advisors fees and legal and accounting fees. in addition, we expect to incur costs associated with realizing synergies from the acquisitions. these costs may be substantial and may include those related to the severance and stock option acceleration provisions of employee benefit plans, as well as other exit costs. we face potential costs related to employee retention and deployment of physical capital and other integration costs. we have not yet determined the final amount of these costs. costs that are not directly related to the acquisitions, including retention and integration costs, will be recorded as incurred and will negatively impact earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the price of our common stock. in addition, from the date of the completion of the acquisitions, our results of operations include the acquired entities operating results, presented in accordance with u.s. gaap. certain of the acquired entities historical consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with ifrs, which differ in certain material respects from u.s. gaap. for instance, u.s. gaap requires omx to recognize revenue under certain of its technology contracts over the term of the contract rather than at the beginning of the contract. accordingly, the u.s. gaap presentation of omx results of operations may not be comparable to omx ab historical financial statements. 37 table of contents risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2008, there were 201,896,700 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 5,588,936 million options exercisable as of december 31, 2008 at a weighted average exercise price of $10.38. the number of shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes held by silver lake partners, or slp, and vab investors llc, or vab, and their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 8,281,162 shares of our common stock. we have registered the shares underlying slp, vab and their affiliates notes, as well as shares of common stock they hold outright, on a form s-3 registration statement, and those shares are freely transferable if sold pursuant to the registration statement. it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amounts of the 2.50% convertible notes in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. however, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. the conversion rate will initially be 18.1386 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $55.13 per share of common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, approved exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of 38 table of contents the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter to 5% of voting power, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, nasdaq rules include a rule prohibiting any nasdaq member or any person associated with a member from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. nasdaq rules also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 22 risk factors in this form 10-k. ii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2010 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives; the impact of pricing changes; future tax benefits; the cost and availability of liquidity; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading volume or listed companies; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 . 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, exchange technology, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange. the nasdaq stock market is the largest cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2009, the nasdaq stock market was home to 2,852 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $4 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate a second cash equities trading market, two options markets, a futures market and a derivatives clearinghouse. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. in addition, we operate nasdaq omx europe, a marketplace for pan-european blue chip trading based in the united kingdom, nasdaq omx commodities, an offering for trading and clearing commodities based in norway, and nasdaq omx armenia. in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. collectively, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives. our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies called nasdaq omx first north. as of december 31, 2009, the exchanges within nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic were home to 797 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $874 billion. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the financial industry regulatory authority, or finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. prior to operating as an exchange, the nasdaq stock market operated under an sec-approved plan that provided a delegation of legal authority from finra to the nasdaq stock market to operate as a stock market. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai, and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. concurrently with the business combination with omx ab, we also acquired a 33 1/3 % equity stake in nasdaq dubai limited, or nasdaq dubai. in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. as part of this realignment, nasdaq dubai will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of dubai financial market pjsc, or dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. nasdaq omx will receive a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for our equity interest in nasdaq dubai. 2 table of contents in july 2008, we completed our acquisition of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, expanding our presence in the derivatives market. phlx, renamed nasdaq omx phlx, inc., operates as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market, our options platform that was launched in march 2008. we closed the acquisition of the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx, in august 2008. we used the bsx license to create a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx, which was launched in january 2009. in october 2008, we acquired nord pool asa s, or nord pool s, clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries. as a result of the acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in december 2008, we acquired a majority interest in the international derivatives clearing group, or idcg, and idcg became an independently operated subsidiary of nasdaq omx. idcg provides central counterparty, or ccp, clearing for interest rate swap products through its clearinghouse subsidiary, international derivatives clearinghouse, llc, or idch. in january 2009, we acquired a 22% stake in european multilateral clearing facility n.v., or emcf, a leading european clearinghouse. in addition, we signed an agreement with emcf to use its ccp services for all nordic transactions. in december 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our ownership interest in agora-x, llc, or agora-x, to 85% resulting in a majority stake. agora-x has developed an electronic communications network, or ecn, for over-the-counter, or otc, contracts in the commodities market. competitive strengths premier global exchange company. we are a premier global exchange company that is the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2009, the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic had an average daily trading volume of 10.1 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $14.4 trillion. in addition, across our markets, we had 3,649 listings representing 44 countries as of december 31, 2009. we have many of the world largest companies listed on our marketplaces, with a leading market share of listings in the information technology, biotech and paper product industries. our wholly-owned subsidiary the nasdaq stock market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the u.s. leader in global exchange technology. we believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. as the world first electronic stock exchange, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 30 years. our inet platform processes trades at sub-millisecond transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. in addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at twice the level of daily peaks, allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. furthermore, through omx ab, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including china (hong kong), japan, singapore, australia and the u.s. our new genium &reg; offering, based on proven inet technology, is intended to provide technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. we believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms. diversified operations and products. we have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. the acquisitions of omx, phlx and bsx, the strong derivatives exchange business of our options markets, the launch of nasdaq omx commodities and our investments in idcg, emcf and agora-x have significantly diversified our product offerings. in addition, our pan-european market, nasdaq omx europe, and our offerings in derivatives clearing and settlement further diversify our business and enhance our growth opportunities in europe. 3 table of contents proven and disciplined management team. we have a proven and disciplined management team that has substantial industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. led by robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, our executive management team has significant experience in the financial services industry. we believe the nasdaq omx management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities. commitment to regulatory integrity. as a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. we are charged by regulators with maintaining fair and orderly markets for the benefit of investors, and we work to fulfill this obligation in several ways. in some instances, we have entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. in addition, we operate real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring and enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. we are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the nasdaq omx brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets. products and services we operate in three segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. of our 2009 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.0% was from our market services segment, 22.3% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.7% related to other revenues. of our 2008 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our market services segment, 23.5% was from our issuer services segment, 8.2% was from our market technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues. of our 2007 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $812 million, 65.0% was from our market services segment and 35.0% was from our issuer services segment. see note 18, segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. u.s. transaction services in the u.s., we offer trading in equity securities, derivatives and etfs on the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx futures exchange, or nfx. our transaction-based platforms in the u.s. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equities, derivatives and etfs. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. equities trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 21% of all u.s. equities volume for 2009. in january 2009, we launched a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx. with nasdaq omx bx, we offer a second quote within the u.s. equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. we have been able to leverage our inet trading system, which runs the nasdaq stock market, to operate nasdaq omx bx, providing customers an additional fast and efficient cash equities market. 4 table of contents our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platform provides members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equities on the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platform: provides a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross, ipo cross and the intraday cross. provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. later in 2010, we expect to launch a third u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx psx, pending sec approval. this new market will utilize a price/size priority model and will run on inet technology, leveraging the speed and efficiency benefits offered throughout nasdaq omx globally. trade reporting. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, nyse amex and other exchanges. through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and is submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf does not charge market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it does earn shared market information revenues with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. u.s. derivative trading. with the acquisition of phlx and the launch of the nasdaq options market, we established our position in the u.s. marketplace for the trading of equity options, index options and currency options. the nasdaq options market is designed to leverage our existing technology, customer connectivity and market structure. the acquisition of phlx provided us with the third largest options market in the u.s. renamed nasdaq omx phlx, it operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market. during 2009, nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market had an average combined market share of approximately 21% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 18% at nasdaq omx phlx and approximately 3% at the nasdaq options 5 table of contents market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to retail investors and high frequency trading firms, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often prefer to trade on the floor. in the u.s., we also operate nfx which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. most futures traded on nfx clear at the options clearing corporation, or occ. in addition, nfx serves as the designated contract market for interest rate swap products that are cleared through idch. through idch, our majority-owned subsidiary idcg brings a centrally-cleared solution to the largest segment of the otc derivatives marketplace, specifically interest rate derivatives. idch acts as the ccp for interest rate swap futures contracts. idch, in conjunction with razor risk technologies, utilizes nasdaq omx matching and clearing technology to clear and settle derivative products. european transaction services nordics. nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the exchanges offer trading for equities and bonds and trading and clearing services for derivatives. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic market data. cash trading is offered in nordic securities such as equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products. nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen also offer trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for certain otc contracts. the transactions are reported electronically prior to ccp clearing and we thereby guarantee the completion of the transaction. following the completion of a transaction, settlement takes place between parties with the exchange of the securities and funds. the transfer of ownership is registered and the securities are stored on the owner behalf. settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. beginning in october 2009, most of our equity trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic are centrally cleared by emcf, a leading european clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake. in 2009, nasdaq omx expanded its trading offering to include equities listed in norway and launched a new portfolio of norwegian derivatives products. the offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all nordic equity products on one platform. nasdaq omx became the second largest market for trading in norwegian stocks in 2009. baltics. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). during the fourth quarter of 2009, we acquired additional ownership stakes in nasdaq omx tallinn and nasdaq omx vilnius. as of december 31, 2009, nasdaq omx holds a 93% ownership stake in both nasdaq omx tallinn and nasdaq omx riga and holds a 95% ownership stake in nasdaq omx vilnius. in addition, we own a majority of the central securities depositories in estonia and latvia, and 40% of the central securities depository in lithuania. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody 6 table of contents services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, nasdaq omx offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. pan-european. nasdaq omx europe is a marketplace designed for high performance trading of the most actively traded european stocks. it is the first platform to connect european liquidity pools with pan-european routing. as of december 31, 2009, nasdaq omx europe traded 1,033 securities including constituents of the main european indexes, etfs and other highly liquid securities. commodities trading and clearing. nasdaq omx commodities, together with third party partner nord pool, provides access to the world largest power derivatives markets and one of europe largest carbon markets. nasdaq omx commodities offers international derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. nord pool is responsible for exchange operations and trading activities, including ownership of nordic derivatives products. nasdaq omx commodities and nord pool have 388 members from 22 countries across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. nasdaq omx commodities offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. nasdaq omx commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for trades on the otc derivative market subject to our approval on a case-by-case basis. trading on the contracts can take place up until the delivery period which can occur over a period of up to six years in january 2010, nasdaq omx commodities and nord pool spot launched n2ex, a marketplace for physical uk power contracts. access services we provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. the financial information exchange product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. market participants may also access our systems using qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. finally, firms may use former inet protocols, such as ouch and rash, to access our single trading platform. as an alternative to firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the nasdaq workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also offer our customers memberships to our multiple exchanges for an annual and monthly fee. 7 table of contents market data we earn market data revenues from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx are participants in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive securities information processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape fees to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. u.s. market data products. our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our market data. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 1,800 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer a totalview enterprise license to facilitate broad based distribution of this data to large audiences. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq basic, launched in 2009, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information; nasdaq last sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals; nasdaq market replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for nasdaq, nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities at any point in time; nasdaq omx datastore, which is one aspect of nasdaq omx web 2.0 initiative to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content; 8 table of contents mutual fund quotation service, a service for over 26,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; mutual fund dissemination service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds; global index dissemination service, released in 2009, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; and nasdaq omx trader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data vendors with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as open, closing, halt and ipo crosses) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee. european market data products. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer european market data products and services. these products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic for three classes of securities: equities, bonds and derivatives. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. significant european market data products include: nordic equity totalview provides full market insight, with 20 level order book, news and analysis data for all nordic equities. the product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators; nordic derivative level 2 provides listing details, trade information, derived information and order book information with the five best levels of bid and ask prices with the respective total quantity; nordic fixed income level 2 provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures; corporate action and accounting data; and european last sale, launched in 2008 (along with the nasdaq last sale product in the u.s.), to provide broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company which is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. the primary services consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. 9 table of contents we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group over 3,600 companies representing approximately $4.9 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2009. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. global listing services our global listing services business includes our u.s. listings, european listings and corporate services businesses. u.s. listings. companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing) and issuers listing on these markets have the opportunity to leverage an array of nasdaq omx corporate services. as of december 31, 2009, a total of 2,852 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,310 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 1,062 on the nasdaq global market and 480 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2009, the nasdaq stock market attracted 131 new listings. included in these listings were 33 ipos, almost 49% of the total u.s. ipos in 2009. the new listings were comprised of the following: new listings on the nasdaq stock market 131 switches from nyse/nyse amex 24 ipos 33 upgrades from otc 47 etfs, structured products and other listings 27 10 table of contents in 2009, the following ten nyse-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing $154 billion in market capitalization: bmc software, inc., cypress semiconductor corporation, dreamworks animation skg, inc., mattel, inc., micron technology, inc., network equipment technologies, inc., r.r. donnelley &amp; sons company, trimas corporation, vodafone group plc and windstream corporation. a total of 14 companies switched from nyse amex to the nasdaq stock market in 2009. there are three types of fees applicable to companies that list on the nasdaq stock market: an annual renewal fee, a listing of additional shares fees and an initial listing fee. annual renewal fees for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market are based on total shares outstanding. the fee for listing of additional shares is also based on the total shares outstanding, which we review quarterly, and the initial listing fee for securities listed on the nasdaq stock market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. european listings. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. as of december 31, 2009, a total of 797 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges. measured in terms of the market capitalization of listed companies, as of december 31, 2009, nasdaq omx nordic was the largest marketplace in europe for it companies, the largest marketplace in the world for the paper industry, the second largest marketplace in the world for apparel retail and third largest marketplace in the world for industrial machinery. revenues are generated through annual fees paid by companies listed on these exchanges, which are measured in terms of the listed company market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. our european listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments that issue and list securities on the exchanges of nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. customers issue securities in the forms of equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds and fixed-income related products. in 2009, a total of 12 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. nasdaq omx first north added five new companies in 2009. corporate services. our corporate services business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. through our corporate services offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we provide corporate services in key areas of focus: investor relations . we provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. market monitoring . we offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance. in november 2008, we acquired bloom partners, a leading market intelligence firm, enhancing our market monitoring services. board practice . we offer board member recruiting and management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness. global visibility. we provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our marketsite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies. in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business. we sold certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business to woodruff-sawyer &amp; co. and, we sold the eastern region insurance brokerage business to aon risk services companies, inc. 11 table of contents portal and the portal alliance. in addition to traditional public offerings, sec rule 144a provides public and private companies with another option for effectively raising capital at a lower cost and with fewer regulatory hurdles. we have managed the process to designate sec rule 144a unregistered securities as portal securities since 1990. in 2009, we and a group of leading securities firms launched the portal alliance, an open, industry-standard 144a equity trading platform with the goal of providing a better market for investors and issuers. the portal alliance members intend to develop a neutral process for investor qualification and tracking of transaction settlement and dissemination of issuer and trading information for rule 144a securities. global index group we are one of the world leading index providers. we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq omx brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. in addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. with the addition in 2008 of omx and phlx, we now have 1,500 diverse indexes, with 78 launched in 2009. nasdaq omx indexes are the basis for over 1,800 structured products in 39 countries. in 2009, product sponsors launched 8 new etfs based on nasdaq omx indexes. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. market technology powering more than 70 markets in over 50 countries, we are the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. the global offering includes trading, clearing, listings, corporate, market data and index services. technology solutions. the systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing and settlement and information dissemination for many types of instruments, ranging from equities to complex derivative products. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including currencies, different types of interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. nasdaq omx technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, bolsa de valores de colombia, egypt stock exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, plus markets group, six swiss exchange, singapore exchange and tokyo commodity exchange. our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues and banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. systems integration, operation and support. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key 12 table of contents information technology solution. by transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. at the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure. advisory services. our advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. we understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of nasdaq omx as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry. core technology. technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. at nasdaq omx, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. nasdaq omx next generation technology is capable of handling over 1 million messages per second at an average speed of sub-250 microseconds, currently the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world. a concrete example of our continuous improvement efforts is that in 2009 we reduced latency by over 40% for the nasdaq stock market. the foundation for nasdaq omx core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq omx u.s. and european markets. inet is also the main building block of our new market technology offering, genium. inet and genium combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers, as well as our own marketplaces. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. an example of the registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, secur, click xt and exigo. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for nasdaq omx-developed inventions and processes. we focus on gaining patent protection for the software functionality that we develop in order for us to fully benefit from our research and development investments. we accomplish this through the evaluation of inventions, the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications for inventions deemed worthwhile to pursue, the maintenance of granted patents, the coordination of information within the organization about patents and the monitoring of competitors for possible use of patented information. competition market services. the equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in the u.s. against nyse euronext, bats exchange, regional exchanges and atss. in europe, our major competitors include nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, the spanish exchanges, six 13 table of contents swiss exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, which are similar to u.s. atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board or otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. in bond trading, we compete in europe with alternative marketplaces such as euromts limited. for derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. the competitive significance in europe of these varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and cost of trade execution. equity securities trading. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as atss active in the equity trade execution business attract market participants investment and become exchanges or acquire regional exchanges. additional new entrants continue to emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of equity order volume through aggressive pricing and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. broker-dealer owned systems in particular experienced rapid growth during 2009. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. also, a regional exchange, the ise stock exchange, has been acquired by the direct edge ats, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges. new exchanges continue to be created. direct edge has filed exchange applications for both of the ats platforms it operates and the bats exchange is also expected to launch a second exchange in 2010. finally, the sec published a concept release early in 2010 that could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid in november 2007. throughout europe new mtfs have been created with the most prominent equity mtfs (chi-x, turquoise, nasdaq omx europe, and bats) based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. aggressive pricing by chi-x during 2009 enabled them to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as markit boat, or boat, continue to be active. in 2009, boat maintained its 2008 position as the largest market trade reporting platform in europe. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in europe and are looking to grow their businesses. in the nordics, a new mtf, burgundy launched in 2009 and plans to expand its business in 2010. these entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do atss in the u.s., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation, and pursuit of exchange status. because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. 14 table of contents derivatives. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, or cboe, the international securities exchange, or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex and the boston options exchange, or box. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. nasdaq omx operates two options exchanges with different market structures. nasdaq omx phlx operates a pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with cboe, ise and nyse amex. the nasdaq options market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with nyse arca and box. the nasdaq options market competes primarily by providing meaningful price improvement to incoming orders and by offering a fast, stable trading system. during 2009, nasdaq omx phlx re-platformed its options technology using the phlx xl ii system based on inet which resulted in significant speed improvements for the exchange. we deployed a number of other systems enhancement to both our options markets during the year to strengthen their positions in the market place. one significant competitive initiative in 2009 was the partial re-mutualization of nyse amex options which contributed to a significant growth in market share for that exchange. also, both bats and the cboe announced plans to launch new options exchanges planned for 2010. the further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing. mifid does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with eurex, liffe, edx and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. bilateral and ccp-like innovations such as nyse euronext bclear and the order machine (tom) which is a collaboration between two of the dutch market largest providers of liquidity are also creating increasing competition for derivatives, mainly in the otc and covered warrants markets. we market nasdaq omx market operations, and trading and clearing services to these new entrants. as trading in europe evolves under mifid, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition requires us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. clearing. in both the u.s. and europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation borders. some countries, such as sweden, did not have a clearinghouse at all until 2009. in some countries such as the u.s., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the central securities depository, or csd. in some, such as germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others such as the u.k., the clearinghouse, exchange, and csd are separate. furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using ccp services in european clearing than in the u.s. regardless of past practice, competition is beginning to come to clearing in response to the european code of conduct in clearing and settlement in europe and initiatives by nasdaq omx in the u.s. at this time, competition in clearing remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as emcf, x-clear and euroccp serving non-national multilateral trading facilities or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges. in 2009, the nasdaq omx nordic exchanges successfully introduced a non-national ccp, operated by emcf, to our markets in order to further spur competition for clearing services in europe. in the u.s., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the u.s. a viable possibility. should clearing competition become a vibrant reality in the u.s., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a 15 table of contents non-trivial cost of trade execution. we believe that clearing in the u.s. will benefit from competition and intend to compete actively for clearing business. in europe, we also believe that competition for clearing will benefit the market, and therefore, even as a 22% equity owner of emcf, one of the largest equities clearinghouses in europe, we support interoperability of cash equities clearinghouses, which will foster a healthy competition among equity clearinghouses in europe. market data services. our revenues from the sale of market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by the nasdaq stock market and other exchanges. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq market center. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. in january 2008, we again changed the terms of the program. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. the sale of our proprietary products are under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products at a lower price or free of charge. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants could price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. the growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by nasdaq omx and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges efforts to expand their market data offerings. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse amex for listing of smaller companies and the bats exchange has recently announced it intends to compete for listings in 2010. competition for listings in europe relates to the choices available to companies considering a new or secondary listing. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b&ouml;rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with smaller market capitalizations. indexes. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which 16 table of contents can be considered competitive with nasdaq omx indexes. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market technology. many exchanges, clearing organizations and securities depositories have traditionally developed their own technology systems for trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination internally, often assisted by consulting companies and local suppliers of components. the competitive landscape is changing and the implementation of third party solutions is growing more popular. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including nyse euronext and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. regulation of u.s. exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. with the registration of the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. with the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange, we acquired additional sro licenses. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, and/or nasdaq omx bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. broker-dealers may also choose other sro memberships, including membership in finra. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to 17 table of contents regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the sec. nasdaq omx currently operates two equities and two options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license, the nasdaq omx bx equities market, launched in january 2009, pursuant to the nasdaq omx bx sro license, and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to the nasdaq omx phlx sro license. in addition, nasdaq omx bx regulates the box market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of nasdaq omx bx and box. nasdaq omx does not have an ownership interest in box, and box compensates nasdaq omx bx based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to box. finra provides regulatory services to the equities and options markets of the nasdaq stock market and the markets operated or regulated by nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the nasdaq stock market and the markets operated and regulated by nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx to finra for further investigation. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq stock market to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx phlx. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, nyse, nyse amex, nyse arca, finra, bats exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, ise and the national stock exchange. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, finra, nyse amex, box, ise and nyse arca. the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute 18 table of contents proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for both nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of such capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra. the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros, including some of the regulatory services we perform for box. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which we are relieved of regulatory responsibility: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra and nyse regulation covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable equity or options order. 19 table of contents cftc regulation. with the acquisition of phlx, we also acquired its subsidiary, nasdaq omx futures exchange, inc. (formerly the philadelphia board of trade), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act. as a designated contract market, nfx is subject to regulatory oversight by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. nfx currently lists trading futures contracts on stock indexes, foreign currencies and interest rate swaps. the national futures association, or nfa, provides certain regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. the cftc also regulates idch, a derivatives clearing organization under the commodity exchange act that is wholly owned by idcg. idch clears interest rate swap futures contracts listed by nfx. nfa also provides regulatory services to idch. european regulation recent directives from the european union have focused on harmonizing regulation with respect to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. these directives are in turn providing opportunities for companies such as ours. currently, there are discussions on legislative initiatives in relation to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to use our position in the industry to continue product development, and ensure that nasdaq omx europe and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. subject to regulatory approvals, our intent is to move the real-time trading surveillance for nasdaq omx europe to stockholm during 2010. in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. there are three surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark. these committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx nordic copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq omx stockholm role as central counterparty in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. 20 table of contents with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks which may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest which may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2009, nasdaq omx had 2,216 employees, of which 978 were based in the u.s. and 1,238 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 109 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. in addition, at december 31, 2009, idcg had 19 employees who are included in headcount numbers for financial statement reporting purposes since they are staff employed at a consolidated entity where we have a controlling financial interest. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information, then click on sec filings. 21 table of contents we intend to use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under sec regulation fd. these disclosures will be included on our website under investor relations events and presentations. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our market data, global index and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and the markets for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european exchanges and mtf. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated from a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include nyse euronext, the london stock exchange, deutsche borse, the tokyo stock exchange, and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, market data, listings, regulation, and index services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. our competitors include direct edge ats in the u.s. and burgundy mtf in the nordics. in london, chi-x, turquoise and bats mtfs offer pan-european execution services in competition with both our nordic exchanges and nasdaq omx europe. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark-pools and internalization engines which may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. 22 table of contents price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased market data rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of market data and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer market data rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. a decline in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. as market volatility declined in 2009 so did trading volumes relative to previous levels. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on high frequency trading and taxes on securities transactions, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through our pricing. declines in trading volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our market share of trading has declined and may continue to decline. our matched market share in nasdaq-listed securities executed on nasdaq declined from 46.1% in 2007 to 33% in 2009 and our combined matched market share in all u.s.-listed securities declined from 29.1% in 2007 to 23% in 2009. in addition, as a result of the adoption of mifid, a number of mtfs have launched, thereby significantly increasing competition in europe. as a result, our matched market share in securities listed on our exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic has declined from 100% in 2007 to 88% in 2009. although there have been improvements in our matched market share in the u.s. in recent months, if our total market share in these securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. declines in market share could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. also, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the utp plan, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors including general economic conditions and other factors that are generally beyond our control. although access to credit markets has improved recently, a long-term continuation of challenging economic conditions is likely to negatively impact our business. adverse 23 table of contents market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes and market technology. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. market data revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk if staff reductions continue to occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our market data professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies and a decline in market data revenue due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. in 2009, the pace of initial public offerings recovered modestly from the record-low level of 2008 in the u.s., but remained severely depressed in the nordics. although we have experienced positive trends in the number of ipo applications in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in the beginning of 2010, the outlook for recovery in the market for initial public offerings is closely tied to the availability of risk capital which may not return to historic levels for some time. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to adverse financial conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, in the past two years, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis. during the coming year, it is likely that there will be significant changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. for example, the sec published a concept release early in 2010 that could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as short selling, co-location, high-frequency trading, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec, the sfsa and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. regulatory changes by the sec, the sfsa or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets. 24 table of contents we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facility, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. although we successfully refinanced our existing credit facilities earlier this year by issuing senior unsecured notes and entering into a new unsecured credit facility, limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facility, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facility fluctuates based on our credit ratings. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platforms fail to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; the integration of businesses, operations and workforces; unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; 26 table of contents the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our 27 table of contents operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets. we clear a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. in addition, our high leverage could limit our flexibility in the operation of our clearing business. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. in connection with recent acquisitions, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness that we refinanced in january 2010. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2009 was approximately $2.1 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $250.0 million under a revolver that is part of our new credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2009, goodwill totaled approximately $4.8 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.6 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. goodwill for our three reporting units are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using october 1 st carrying values. we assess potential impairments to goodwill and intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and 28 table of contents macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flow. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. however, disruptions to our business, such as continued economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment test for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future. for goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. for intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. if we incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future our operating results could be adversely affected. our investment in nasdaq dubai may result in an additional impairment charge and could harm us in other ways. in exchange for $50 million in cash and the entry into certain licensing and technology agreements, we acquired 33 1 / 3 % of the outstanding equity of nasdaq dubai in 2008. at that time, nasdaq omx valued its total nasdaq dubai investment at $128 million. in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. as part of this realignment, nasdaq dubai will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. we will receive a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for our equity interest in nasdaq dubai. our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with borse dubai and nasdaq dubai will remain unchanged. the realignment is expected to be completed during the first half of 2010 and, at that time, we may record a gain or a loss based on the then-current market price of dfm shares and the then-current carrying value of our investment in nasdaq dubai. additionally, the licensing and technology agreements we have entered into with nasdaq dubai may have an adverse effect on us to the extent that our brand is not promoted in a manner that benefits our shareholders. we may not be able to terminate these agreements or end our association with nasdaq dubai in a manner that would prevent harm to our brand and reputation, particularly in certain key emerging markets. our agreements with nasdaq dubai also prevent or limit us from seeking opportunities to grow our business in certain regions, and this may have a negative impact on our ability to enter those markets in the future. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. our business is subject to extensive regulation. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases 29 table of contents explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. furthermore, certain of our other businesses, including nfx, the clearinghouse operated by idcg and agora-x, are subject to regulation by the cftc. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services, llc and nasdaq option services, llc, are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nyse and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec, the nyse and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as operating exchanges or csds. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, switzerland, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold minority stakes in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-u.s. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our european exchanges or nasdaq omx europe as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although our u.s. cash equities and options exchanges outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning 30 table of contents markets. the monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services also is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services also is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. in addition, through our nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg clearing operations, we act as a counterparty in each transaction and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we also are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. in the u.s., we are subject to oversight by the sec, and our subsidiaries nfx, idcg and agora-x are subject to oversight by the cftc. in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under either the securities or commodities laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. 31 table of contents our non-u.s. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the european union level. implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. if a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key executive officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 32 table of contents damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; security breaches, including any unauthorized delivery of proprietary data to third parties or physical security breaches; management of our outsourcing partnerships, especially our relationship with finra; and any misconduct or fraudulent activity by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past year, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. 33 table of contents we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. these equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. our non-u.s. business operates in various emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms throughout the company. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., several of the nordic and baltic markets, the u.k. and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the swedish krona, danish krone, icelandic kr&oacute;na, norwegian krone, british pound sterling, euro, u.s. dollar and other foreign currencies. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 34 table of contents charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, or eps, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we will incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2009, there were 211,385,464 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. 35 table of contents the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 6.8 million options exercisable as of december 31, 2009 at a weighted average exercise price of $12.56. it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amounts of the 2.50% convertible notes in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. however, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. the conversion rate will initially be 18.1386 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $55.13 per share of common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, approved exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter to 5% of voting power, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro and norwegian krone. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. the following discussion of results of operations eliminates the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations to better measure the comparability of operating results between periods. operating results excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations are calculated by translating the current year results by the prior period exchange rates. the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 2009 when compared with the same period in 2008: revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased $7 million, or 0.5%, to $1,453 million in 2009, compared with $1,460 million in 2008, reflecting an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $45 million, partially offset by a $38 million increase due to operational growth. the operational growth was primarily due to: an increase in derivative trading and clearing revenues mainly due to: the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx derivative trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008 combined with an increase in market share; and 42 table of contents the inclusion of nasdaq omx commodities derivative trading and clearing revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to two months in 2008; an increase in market technology revenues mainly due to: the inclusion of revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008 as well as increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009; and an increase in access services revenues mainly due to: revised fees for access services and increases in customer demand for network connectivity as well as continued expansion of our co-location services and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008. the increase in operational growth was partially offset by a decrease in u.s. cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees due to a decrease in the number of shares matched and routed on nasdaq trading system and a decrease in issuer services revenues primarily due to lower annual renewal fees resulting from fewer listed companies. operating expenses increased $30 million, or 3.7%, to $850 million in 2009, compared with $820 million in 2008, reflecting an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. the increase in operating expenses was primarily due to the inclusion of omx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008, as well as the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008. net interest expense increased $27 million, or 43.5%, to $89 million in 2009, compared with $62 million in 2008, primarily reflecting a full twelve months of interest expense in 2009 for the debt outstanding related to our business combination with omx ab compared to ten months of debt outstanding in 2008. in addition, interest expense increased due to an increase in our outstanding debt obligations related to the acquisitions of phlx and certain businesses of nord pool that were completed in the second half of 2008. income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net was a net loss of $107 million in 2009, compared with net income of $27 million in 2008. the net loss for 2009 is primarily due to $87 million of impairment charges ($82 million on our nasdaq dubai investment and $5 million on our agora-x investment), as well as a $19 million loss related to the sale of our share capital in orc software ab, or orc. the net income for 2008 was primarily related to the nasdaq dubai transaction. debt conversion expense was $25 million for 2009 and was related to the conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. the $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of series a convertible preferred stock issued totaling $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. asset impairment charges of $42 million in 2008 were due to a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to a long-term available-for-sale investment security and a non-cash impairment loss of $7 million from the write-down of finite-lived intangible assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business. loss on foreign currency contracts, net of $58 million in 2008 was primarily related to the nord pool acquisition and losses on forward currency contracts used to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on contracted revenue streams partially offset by gains on foreign currency contracts related to our business combination with omx ab. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. 43 table of contents business environment we serve listed companies, market participants and investors by providing high quality cash equity, fixed-income and derivative markets, thereby facilitating economic growth and corporate entrepreneurship. we also provide market technology to exchanges and markets around the world. in broad terms, our business performance is impacted by a number of drivers including macroeconomic events affecting the risk and return of financial assets, investor sentiment, government and private sector demands for capital, the regulatory environment for primary and secondary equity markets, and the changing technology in the financial services industry. our future revenues and net income will continue to be influenced by a number of domestic and international economic trends including: trading volumes, particularly in u.s. and nordic equity and derivative securities, which are driven primarily by overall macroeconomic conditions; the number of companies seeking equity financing, which is affected by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, availability of diverse sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies; the ability of the credit markets to provide liquidity to our technology customers, suppliers, trading participants, and listed companies; the financial well being of existing market participants following the financial, organizational, and operational stresses of the recent past; the emergence of new market participants seeing opportunities in the recovering global economy; the ability of our fixed-income issuers to access the credit markets; the increasing optimism of our technology customers arising from the recent securities market rise and economic stabilization; continuing pressure in transaction fee pricing due to intense competition in the u.s. and europe; competition for listings and trade executions related to pricing, and product and service offerings; and other technological advancements and regulatory developments. currently our business drivers are characterized by improvement in investors outlook for financial institutions and global economic growth, continued declines in the levels of market volatility, emerging industry reaction to regulatory initiatives and continued rapid evolution and deployment of new technology in the financial services industry. the business environment that influenced our financial performance for the full year of 2009 can be characterized as follows: a modestly increased pace for new equity issuance relative to 2008 in the u.s. with 67 ipos across all exchanges in the u.s. and 33 new ipos on the nasdaq stock market. ipo activity remained severely depressed in the nordics with one ipo on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic; extremely limited access to debt and equity capital for both new and established companies during the first half of the year with marked improvement over the course of the year; a 21% reduction in activity experienced by the nasdaq stock market relative to 2008 in u.s. equity matched shares, partially offset by the share volume growth of nasdaq omx bx. matched share volume for all our u.s. markets declined 15% in 2009 driven by decreased trading levels resulting from diminished volatility, a loss of market share and a decline in overall activity relative to the highly elevated trading levels of 2008 due to the financial crisis; a 0.5% decrease relative to 2008 in the number of equity transactions on our nordic and baltic exchanges driven by decreased participant trading in response to changed economic conditions; 44 table of contents a 27% decrease relative to 2008 in the value of equity transactions on our nordic and baltic exchanges resulting from lower equity valuations, lower trading activity due to diminished volatility and the relative return of overall trading activity to levels predating the financial crisis; a 23% decline experienced by our nordic and baltic exchanges relative to 2008 in number of traded derivatives contracts in equity related products (excluding edx london limited, or edx, and eurex) driven by reduced volatility and by the changed economic climate; a 15% decrease relative to 2008 in number of cleared derivatives contracts in fixed-income related products on our nordic and baltic exchanges; intense competition among u.s. exchanges for both equity trading volume and listings, and strong competition between mtfs and exchanges in europe for equity trading volume; globalization of exchanges, customers and competitors extending the competitive horizon beyond national markets; consolidation of major global customers as financial institutions are acquired, merged, and restructured; and market trends requiring continued investment in technology to meet customers demands for speed, capacity, and reliability as markets adapt to a global financial industry, as increasing numbers of new companies surface, and as emerging countries show ongoing interest in developing their financial markets. 2010 outlook we launched several strategic initiatives during 2009 which should benefit us during the challenging economic environment anticipated for 2010. for the second year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single equities exchange in the world. our platform continues to stand out as a reliable, flexible, and high capacity system delivering high levels of execution quality and speed under even the extremely demanding market conditions that existed in the first half of 2009. we continued to expand the application of our u.s. inet trading system with the successful launch of nasdaq omx bx equities and the re-platforming of nasdaq omx phlx options in 2009. the standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform offering strong performance to both existing and new clients and creating additional sales opportunities to both our transactions services and market data businesses. our experiences with applying inet technology to the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx bx equities, nasdaq omx phlx options and nasdaq omx europe equities form the basis for our domestic outlook for 2010. by using nasdaq omx high performance systems, nasdaq omx bx became the fastest growing u.s. stock exchange in 2009 and is currently the fifth largest u.s. equity exchange. the flexibility of inet technology has been demonstrated by its ability to power the nasdaq omx phlx options market as a complementary market to the nasdaq options market but at a significantly reduced technology-related cost. we intend to further leverage the flexibility of inet to launch a new equities market, subject to sec approval, using the nasdaq omx phlx license, which will prioritize trading according to price and order size, thereby offering an exchange alternative to institutional and block traders. our investment in idcg created an opportunity for entering the clearing business for interest rate swap products. in february 2010, we replaced the matching technology of the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic with the inet technology platform, thereby providing the benefits of inet to these marketplaces and demonstrating the flexibility of the inet system to power exchanges outside the u.s. we expect the extension of our world class technology systems, such as inet, across our exchanges to further enhance our competitive position and to open new opportunities for technology sales. 45 table of contents at the end of 2009, there were signs of a recovery in the ipo market and we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies seeking to position themselves for a return of global economic growth to power further increases in the number of ipos. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of recession-proven private companies seeking capital will add to the ipo pipeline in 2010. we continue to leverage the opportunities in market data brought about by the breadth of nasdaq omx data distribution capabilities by offering new data products to our customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers. we believe that the most challenging economic conditions in this cycle are behind us and the year ahead will likely prove more positive for our business drivers and our operations. we believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology synergies in 2008 and 2009 will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2010. we expect to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions which are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments we manage, operate and provide our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. the market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses and our market data business, which are interrelated because the transaction services businesses generate the quote and trade information that we sell to market participants and data distributors. market services also includes our broker services business. the issuer services segment includes our global listing services and the global index group businesses. the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic represent a diverse array of industries. this diversity of companies listed on nasdaq omx markets allows us to develop industry-specific and other indexes that we use to develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and index products as part of our global index group. the global listing services business also includes our corporate services business. the market technology segment provides technology solutions for trading, clearing and settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration and advisory services. our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. see note 18, segments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. sources of revenues and cost of revenues market services revenues transaction services u.s. cash equity trading u.s. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. we charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in nasdaq-listed and other listed securities on the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the liquidity rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these liquidity rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of 46 table of contents securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec in the consolidated balance sheets until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. as we hold the cash received until payment to the sec, we earn interest income on the related cash balances. european cash equity trading we charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as on nasdaq omx europe. the transaction fee for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic is charged per executed order and as per value traded. european cash equity trading revenues on nasdaq omx europe are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. u.s. derivative trading u.s. derivative trading revenues are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. the principal types of derivative contracts traded on nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market are equity options, index options and currency options. in the u.s., we also operate nfx, which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. similar to u.s. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the liquidity rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. see u.s. cash equity trading above for further discussion. european derivative trading and clearing european derivative trading and clearing revenues are also variable, based on service volumes and recognized as transactions occur. derivative trading and clearing is conducted on nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen. the principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. european derivative trading and clearing revenues also include commodities clearing revenues. nasdaq omx commodities, together with third party partner nord pool, provides access to the world largest power derivatives markets and one of europe largest carbon markets. nasdaq omx commodities offers international derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. nord pool is responsible for exchange operations and trading activities. our clearing revenues from trading transactions on nord pool are variable, based on service volumes and recognized as they are cleared. we also have clearing revenues for contracts traded on the otc derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared. in february 2010, the board of directors of nord pool exercised their put option to sell nord pool nordic power derivatives operations to nasdaq omx, subject to regulatory approval. see acquisition of nordic power derivatives operations, of note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 47 table of contents access services we generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. the type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. as a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. market data market data revenues are earned from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. net u.s. tape plans revenues from u.s. tape plans include eligible utp plan revenues which are shared among utp plan participants. under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive securities information processor from the total amount of tape fees collected. after these costs are deducted from the tape fees, we distribute to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx bx, their share of tape fees based on a formula, required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. revenues from net u.s. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis. u.s. market data products we collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our market data. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. u.s. market data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants. european market data products european market data revenues, which are subscription based, are generated primarily through the sale and distribution of trading information based on data generated through trading on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and are recognized on a monthly basis. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. the primary services offered are flexible back-office systems. our services allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. broker services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the consolidated statements of income. the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. 48 table of contents issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. european listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, are directly related to the listed companies market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. global listing services revenues also include fees from corporate services which include subscription income from shareholder.com and directors desk, fees from globenewswire and revenues from corporate services nordic. prior to october 2009, corporate services revenues also included commission income from our carpenter moore insurance agency business. in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and recorded a gain of $7 million, which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the consolidated statements of income. the sale of our carpenter moore business will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. fee income for services other than placement of insurance coverage is recognized as those services are provided. broker commission adjustments and commissions on premiums billed directly by underwriters were recognized when such amounts could be reasonably estimated. shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. as part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. directors desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. globenewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. for our insurance agency business, commission income was recognized when coverage became effective, the premium due under the policy was known or could be reasonably estimated, and substantially all required services related to placing the insurance had been provided. global index group we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the u.s. and abroad. we also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. if a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. if a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. asset-based licenses also are generally long-term agreements. customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. these revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement. 49 table of contents market technology revenues the market technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces throughout the world. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing and settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration and advisory services. revenues are derived from three primary sources: licensing, support and project revenues, facility management services revenues and other revenues. license, support and project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe, of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. many projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. when significant production, modification or customization of our software is not required, revenue and costs are recognized over the entire term of the arrangement, once the software has been delivered and services have commenced. we include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, market technology license, support and project revenues also include amortization of the deferred revenue related to our contribution of technology licenses to nasdaq dubai. see combination with omx ab and strategic partnership with borse dubai limited, of note 3, acquisitions and strategic initiatives, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our transaction with nasdaq dubai. facility management services revenues are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management services revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. facility management services revenues are recognized as services are rendered over the contract period after delivery has occurred. other revenues include advisory services that are recognized in revenue when earned. 50 table of contents nasdaq omx operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, issuer services, and market technology segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 market services cash equity trading nasdaq securities average daily share volume (in billions) 2.24 2.28 2.17 matched market share executed on nasdaq 33.0 % 43.2 % 46.1 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 1.4 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 36.6 % 22.6 % 25.3 % total market share (2) 71.0 % 65.8 % 71.4 % nyse securities average daily share volume (in billions) 5.64 5.06 3.32 matched market share executed on nasdaq 15.7 % 22.2 % 17.1 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 1.9 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 32.1 % 19.3 % 18.0 % total market share (2) 49.6 % 41.5 % 35.1 % nyse amex and regional securities average daily share volume (in billions) 1.89 1.49 0.59 matched market share executed on nasdaq 24.4 % 35.1 % 33.3 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 1.4 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 32.1 % 16.2 % 19.3 % total market share (2) 57.9 % 51.4 % 52.7 % total u.s.-listed equities matched share volume (in billions) 566.6 665.9 442.0 matched market share executed on nasdaq 21.3 % 29.8 % 29.1 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 1.7 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily number of equity trades 212,465 213,481 average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 3.1 $ 5.0 derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options average daily volume (in millions) 13.4 13.0 nasdaq omx phlx matched market share 17.9 % 16.4 % the nasdaq options market matched market share 3.1 % 1.0 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily volume: equity option and fixed-income contracts 329,350 418,773 nordic equity option contracts traded on edx 95,374 153,686 finnish option contracts traded on eurex 77,312 73,870 nasdaq omx commodities clearing turnover: power contracts (twh) (3) 2,138 409 carbon contracts (1000 tco2) (3) 45,963 13,261 51 table of contents year ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 issuer services initial public offerings: nasdaq 33 13 132 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 1 17 new listings: nasdaq (4) 131 177 290 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 12 28 number of listed companies: nasdaq (5) 2,852 3,023 3,135 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (6) 797 824 market technology order intake (in millions) (7) $ 204 $ 229 total order value (in millions) (8) $ 417 $ 359 (1) transactions reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility. (2) includes transactions executed on both nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility. (3) transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq omx commodities measured by terawatt hours (twh) and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tco2). (4) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (5) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (6) represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets, nasdaq omx first north, at period end. (7) total contract value of orders signed. (8) represents total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenue. segment operating results of our 2009 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.0% was from our market services segment, 22.3% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.7% related to other revenues. of our 2008 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our market services segment, 23.5% was from our issuer services segment, 8.2% was from our market technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues. of our 2007 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $812 million, 65.0% was from our market services segment and 35.0% was from our issuer services segment. 52 table of contents the following table shows our total revenues, cost of revenues and revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees by segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (in millions) market services $ 2,929 $ 3,176 $ 2,152 (7.8 )% 47.6 % cost of revenues (1,956 ) (2,190 ) (1,624 ) (10.7 )% 34.9 % market services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 973 986 528 (1.3 )% 86.7 % issuer services 324 343 284 (5.5 )% 20.8 % market technology 145 119 21.8 % # other 11 12 (8.3 )% # total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,453 $ 1,460 $ 812 (0.5 )% 79.8 % # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. 53 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (in millions) transaction services cash equity trading revenues: u.s. cash equity trading (1) $ 2,010 $ 2,412 $ 1,806 (16.7 )% 33.6 % cost of revenues: liquidity rebates (1,394 ) (1,718 ) (1,050 ) (18.9 )% 63.6 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (465 ) (444 ) (574 ) 4.7 % (22.6 )% total u.s. cash equity cost of revenues (1,859 ) (2,162 ) (1,624 ) (14.0 )% 33.1 % u.s. cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 151 250 182 (39.6 )% 37.4 % european cash equity trading 99 116 (14.7 )% # total cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 250 366 182 (31.7 )% # derivative trading and clearing revenues: u.s. derivative trading (2) 232 93 # # cost of revenues: liquidity rebates (81 ) (26 ) # # brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (16 ) (2 ) # # total u.s. derivative trading cost of revenues (97 ) (28 ) # # u.s. derivative trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 135 65 # # european derivative trading and clearing revenues 87 64 35.9 % # total derivative trading and clearing revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 222 129 72.1 % # access services revenues 138 112 77 23.2 % 45.5 % total transaction services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 610 607 259 0.5 % # market data net u.s. tape plans 128 146 150 (12.3 )% (2.7 )% u.s. market data products 116 107 90 8.4 % 18.9 % european market data products 78 77 1.3 % # total market data revenues 322 330 240 (2.4 )% 37.5 % broker services 32 41 (22.0 )% # other market services 9 8 29 12.5 % (72.4 )% total market services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 973 $ 986 $ 528 (1.3 )% 86.7 % 54 table of contents # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $314 million in 2009, $207 million in 2008, and $365 million in 2007. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. (2) includes section 31 fees of $14 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. derivative trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. transaction services transaction services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to increases in derivative trading and clearing revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees, an increase in derivative trading and clearing revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and an increase in access services revenues. u.s. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system and the average net fee per share matched on nasdaq trading system. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system due to competitive pricing and systems capacity advantages. u.s. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system, partially offset by higher section 31 revenues due to higher rates charged by us to customers beginning in the second quarter of 2009. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system primarily due to competitive pricing and systems capacity advantages, partially offset by lower section 31 revenues due to lower rates charged by us to customers beginning in the first quarter of 2008. as discussed above, we record section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $314 million in 2009, $207 million in 2008 and $365 million in 2007. the increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due to higher section 31 fee rates in 2009. the decrease in 2008 compared with 2007 is primarily due to lower section 31 fee rates in 2008. liquidity rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a lower number of shares matched on nasdaq trading system, partially offset by an increase in the amount of the rebate offered to liquidity providers. the increase in liquidity rebates in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in the number of shares matched on nasdaq trading system. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and decreased in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher section 31 fee rates, partially offset by lower routing costs due to a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq and lower fees incurred from nscc. the decrease in 2008 was primarily due to lower rates charged on section 31 fees in 2008. 55 table of contents european cash equity trading revenues european cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on nasdaq omx europe and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. european cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the value traded per day due to lower average market capitalization of stocks traded, partially offset by the inclusion of european cash equity trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. in addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted european cash equity trading revenues by $11 million in 2009. u.s. derivative trading revenues u.s. derivative trading revenues and revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx derivative trading revenues of $196 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx derivative trading revenues totaling $78 million for 2008. in addition, an increase in market share contributed to these increases. as discussed above, section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $14 million in 2009 compared with $2 million 2008. liquidity rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx liquidity rebates of $61 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx liquidity rebates totaling $17 million in 2008. the increase in liquidity rebates also was due to an increase in market share as discussed above. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $11 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx brokerage, clearance and exchange fees totaling $2 million in 2008. european derivative trading and clearing revenues european derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen and also include revenues from nasdaq omx commodities. european derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the growth in cleared energy products and the transfer of derivative volume from edx to nasdaq omx. european derivative trading and clearing revenues include: cleared energy and carbon products revenues of $35 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with $6 million for the two-month period included in 2008; trading and clearing revenues for stock and index derivatives of $33 million in 2009 compared with $41 million in 2008; clearing revenues from fixed income products of $13 million in 2009 and 2008; and other revenues and fees of $6 million in 2009 compared with $4 million in 2008. during 2009, we began providing trading and clearing operations to a new dutch trading platform called tom, which primarily contributed to the increase in other revenues and fees. the above was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2009. 56 table of contents access services revenues access services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to: (i) revised fees for access services, (ii) increases in customer demand for network connectivity, (iii) continued expansion of our co-location services and (iv) the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues of $15 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues totaling $10 million in 2008. access services revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to increases in customer demand for network connectivity, higher exchange and other membership fees and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues of $10 million in 2008. market data market data revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a decrease in net u.s. tape plans revenues, partially offset by increases in u.s. market data products revenues and the inclusion of european market data products revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. equities and a reduction in the size of the tape plans revenue pools. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2009 was primarily due to growth of products such as the nasdaq global index data service, which was launched in the first quarter of 2009, nasdaq last sale, which was launched in the second quarter of 2008, and other proprietary data products. market data revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in u.s. market data products revenues and the inclusion of european market data products revenues of $77 million, partially offset by a smaller decrease in net u.s. tape plan revenues. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2008 was primarily due to revenues from openview basic, which was launched in the second quarter of 2007, revenues from nasdaq last sale, which was launched in 2008, and growth from other proprietary data products including totalview, open view and level 2. net u.s. tape plan revenues decreased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to a decrease in our share of trading and quoting activity in nasdaq-listed securities through the utp plan, partially offset by increases in our share of trading and quoting activity in nyse-listed securities. our tape fee revenue sharing amount allocated to utp plan participants increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to a reduction of our percentage earned of the utp revenue caused, in part by the regulation nms market data revenue allocation formula, which became effective april 1, 2007. broker services broker services revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million and the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse in november 2009. other market services revenues other market services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and decreased in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2008 was primarily due to certain other market services revenues now reported as market technology revenues. 57 table of contents issuer services the following table shows revenues from our issuer services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (in millions) global listing services: annual renewal fees $ 117 $ 125 $ 125 (6.4 )% listing of additional shares fees 37 40 41 (7.5 )% (2.4 )% initial listing fees 20 22 22 (9.1 )% total u.s. listing fees 174 187 188 (7.0 )% (0.5 )% european listing fees 45 48 (6.3 )% # corporate services 66 64 53 3.1 % 20.8 % total global listing services 285 299 241 (4.7 )% 24.1 % global index group 39 44 43 (11.4 )% 2.3 % total issuer services revenues $ 324 $ 343 $ 284 (5.5 )% 20.8 % # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. global listing services u.s. listing services revenues annual renewal fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on the nasdaq stock market. the number of companies listed on the nasdaq stock market on january 1, 2009 was 3,023, compared to 3,135 on january 1, 2008, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. the decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 289 delistings from the nasdaq stock market in 2008, partially offset by 177 new listings in 2008. annual renewal fees were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. the number of companies listed on the nasdaq stock market on january 1, 2008 was 3,135, compared to 3,193 on january 1, 2007, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. the decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 348 delistings from the nasdaq stock market in 2007, partially offset by 290 new listings in 2007. the number of listed companies as of january 1, 2009, 2008 and 2007 includes separately listed etfs. annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over a 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 as fewer companies issued additional shares in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009 compared to prior years. listing of additional shares fees were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. listing of additional shares fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of four years. initial listing fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the number of new listings. there were 131 new listings, including 33 ipos, during 2009 compared with 177 new listings, including 13 ipos, during 2008 compared with 290 new listings, including 132 ipos, during 2007. the decrease in new listings during 2009 will impact future revenues as these fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of six years. 58 table of contents european listing services revenues european listing services revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decline in the market capitalization of nordic issuers as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 824 as of december 31, 2008 to 797 as of december 31, 2009. in addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted european listing services revenues by $4 million in 2009. partially offsetting the decline in 2009 was an increase in revenues due to the inclusion of european listing services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. these revenues are recognized ratably over a 12-month period. corporate services revenues corporate services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to expanding customer utilization of shareholder.com, revenues from bloom partners and our other corporate services. in addition, the inclusion of corporate services nordic for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. partially offsetting these increases in 2009 was a decrease in carpenter moore revenues primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore business in october 2009. global index group revenues global index group revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and a decrease in licensed derivatives and futures volumes, partially offset by futures price increases and the inclusion of a full twelve-month period of european global index revenues compared with ten months in 2008. global index group revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in licensing fees associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs, licensed derivatives volumes and fees and third party structured products. market technology the following table shows the revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) market technology: license, support and project revenues $ 110 $ 86 27.9 % facility management services 30 29 3.4 % other revenues 5 4 25.0 % total market technology revenues $ 145 $ 119 21.8 % market technology revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of market technology revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. in addition, license support and project revenues increased primarily due to the increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009. partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million in 2009. 59 table of contents expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 412 $ 401 $ 200 2.7 % # marketing and advertising 15 19 21 (21.1 )% (9.5 )% depreciation and amortization 104 93 39 11.8 % # professional and contract services 76 72 32 5.6 % # computer operations and data communications 58 54 29 7.4 % 86.2 % occupancy 81 65 35 24.6 % 85.7 % regulatory 32 29 29 10.3 % merger expenses 17 25 (32.0 )% # general, administrative and other 55 62 62 (11.3 )% total operating expenses $ 850 $ 820 $ 447 3.7 % 83.4 % # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses increased $30 million in 2009 compared with 2008 and $373 million in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. the increase in operating expenses of $63 million in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of omx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. the increase in operating expenses in 2008 was primarily due to the business combination with omx and the acquisition of phlx. expenses for omx and nasdaq omx phlx are included since the date of each acquisition. see below for further discussion. compensation and benefits expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of omx compensation and benefits expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 as well as increased compensation and stock based compensation as a result of other recent acquisitions. partially offsetting the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2009 was a decrease in incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, decreased to 2,235 employees at december 31, 2009 from 2,506 employees at december 31, 2008 due to a reduction in staffing needs driven by successful integration efforts associated with our business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, as well as the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore business and our broker services operations in the united kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2009. the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily due to the inclusion of compensation and benefits expense for omx and nasdaq omx phlx since the date of each acquisition, a curtailment gain of approximately $6 million recognized in 2007 as a result of the pension plan and supplemental executive retirement plan, or serp, freeze and increased incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance. see note 10, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the curtailment gain. headcount increased to 2,506 employees at december 31, 2008 from 887 employees at december 31, 2007, primarily due to our business combination with omx ab. marketing and advertising expense decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in media production and advertising. the decrease 60 table of contents in 2008 was primarily due to reduced marketing activity, partially offset by the inclusion of omx marketing and advertising expense since the date of the business combination in 2008. depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 and the inclusion of omx depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to additional amortization expense for intangible assets acquired in our business combination with omx ab, as well as the inclusion of depreciation and amortization expense for omx and nasdaq omx phlx since the date of each acquisition. professional and contract services expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to expenses for consulting work performed on system upgrades, as well as the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx professional and contract services expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. partially offsetting these increases was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $3 million in 2009, and lower costs due to cost savings programs that were put in place during 2009. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of omx professional and contract services expense since the date of the business combination in 2008. computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in hardware maintenance, software leases and network costs to facilitate our recent acquisitions, as well as the inclusion of omx computer operations and data communications expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of computer operations and data communication expense for omx and nasdaq omx phlx since the date of each acquisition, partially offset by lower costs due to hardware and software leases that were cancelled in the fourth quarter of 2007. occupancy expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to a charge incurred as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in stockholm, sweden before its term and our decision to vacate part of the space we occupy in stockholm, which resulted in recording an estimated sublease loss reserve of $8 million. in addition, an increase in co-location rent and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx occupancy expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 contributed to the increase. partially offsetting this increase was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $2 million for 2009. the increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of occupancy expense for omx and nasdaq omx phlx since the date of each acquisition. regulatory expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and was flat in 2008 compared with 2007. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to new regulatory fees from finra and an expansion of regulatory services to new markets. finra provides regulatory services to the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx and the markets operated and regulated by nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. merger expenses were $17 million for 2009 compared with $25 million in 2008. merger expenses for 2009 and 2008 were directly attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, but did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments. the costs primarily included consulting and legal costs related to our integration of omx ab and phlx. merger expenses in 2009 also included the expected resolution of sales and use tax exposures that existed on previous acquisitions. 61 table of contents general, administrative and other expense decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and was flat in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to foreign exchange which had a favorable impact of $6 million, the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance and other costs, and an improvement in collections of bad debts in 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. see early extinguishment of debt, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the early extinguishment of debt. general, administrative and other expense remained flat in 2008 compared with 2007 due to the inclusion of omx and phlx general, administrative and other expense since the date of each acquisition in 2008, offset by charges recorded in 2007 including a $20 million tax sharing payment owed to silver lake partners, or slp, pursuant to an agreement to share the deferred tax benefit on the sale of instinet institutional brokerage division. in addition, we recorded a $6 million loss in 2007 on the early extinguishment of debt related to the repayment in full of our former credit facilities with the proceeds from the sale of the share capital of lse. also, in 2007 there was an additional loss of $1 million on the early extinguishment of a portion of the 3.75% convertible notes and an $11 million charge related to cancelling a clearing contract. our single trading platform includes functionality that enabled us to discontinue the use of services previously provided under the clearing contract. non-operating income and expenses the following table presents our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (in millions) interest income $ 13 $ 35 $ 38 (62.9 )% (7.9 )% interest expense (102 ) (97 ) (73 ) 5.2 % 32.9 % net interest expense (89 ) (62 ) (35 ) 43.5 % 77.1 % dividend and investment income 2 8 15 (75.0 )% (46.7 )% loss on sale of investment security (5 ) # gain on sales of businesses 12 # income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net (107 ) 27 # # debt conversion expense (25 ) # asset impairment charges (42 ) # # gain (loss) on foreign currency contracts, net (58 ) 44 # # gain on sale of strategic initiative 431 # # strategic initiative costs (26 ) # # total non-operating income and (expenses) $ (212 ) $ (127 ) $ 429 66.9 % # # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. interest income interest income decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to lower interest rates of approximately 2% on our investments in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2008 was primarily due to lower interest rates and the use of cash to fund acquisitions in 2008, partially offset by the inclusion of omx interest income since the date of the business combination in 2008. 62 table of contents interest expense total interest expense for 2009 was $102 million, and was comprised of $67 million in interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes, $11 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense and $11 million in other related fees. interest expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a full twelve-month period of interest expense in 2009 on our outstanding debt obligations related to the omx ab business combination compared with ten months of interest expense in 2008 and additional interest expense due to our increased outstanding debt obligations as a result of the acquisitions of phlx and certain businesses of nord pool that were completed in the second half of 2008. interest expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in debt issuance amortization costs due to the draw-down of debt to fund our acquisitions compared to minimal debt issuance costs in 2007 due to the costs being included in general, administrative and other expenses as a result of the early extinguishment of debt related to the repayment in full of our outstanding debt obligations in september 2007 with the proceeds of the sale of our share capital of lse. in addition, interest expense increased in 2008 due to a higher average outstanding debt balance, due to the draw-down of debt to fund our acquisitions, partially offset by lower interest rates. dividend and investment income dividend and investment income decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the dividend per share received from our available-for-sale investment in the oslo b&oslash;rs exchange, or oslo, as well as a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio classified as trading investment securities. lower fair values were generally related to higher interest rates in 2009 on this portfolio. the decrease in 2008 is primarily due to the absence of the ordinary dividends declared from our investment in lse that was sold in 2007, partially offset by the dividend per share received in 2008 from our available-for-sale investment in oslo. loss on sale of investment security in connection with our business combination with omx ab, we acquired a long-term available-for-sale investment in oslo. during the second quarter of 2009, we made a strategic decision to sell this investment, demonstrating our intent to no longer hold this investment, and recorded a $5 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. in 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to this investment, which was included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income. see asset impairment charges below for further discussion. gain on sales of businesses in october 2009, we entered into agreements to sell substantially all of our carpenter moore business. on october 2, 2009, we agreed to sell certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business to woodruff-sawyer &amp; co. and, on october 26, 2009, we agreed to sell the eastern region insurance brokerage business to aon risk services companies, inc. in connection with these sales, we recorded a gain of $7 million. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million. income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net the net loss in 2009 of $107 million was primarily due to impairment charges related to our investments in nasdaq dubai and agora-x and the sale of our orc shares. see below for further discussion. the net income in 2008 of $27 million primarily related to the nasdaq dubai transaction in february 2008. we contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to nasdaq dubai in exchange for a 33 1 / 3 % equity stake in nasdaq 63 table of contents dubai. one of the intangible assets contributed was the nasdaq trade name, which had a zero carrying value on nasdaq books and records prior to the transfer. as a result, we recognized a $26 million gain for the difference between nasdaq carrying value and the fair value of the contributed asset on this non-monetary exchange. impairment of nasdaq dubai in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. as part of this realignment, nasdaq dubai will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. we will receive a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for our equity interest in nasdaq dubai. our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with borse dubai and nasdaq dubai will remain unchanged. the realignment is expected to be completed during the first half of 2010 and, at that time, we may record a gain or a loss based on the then-current market price of dfm shares and the then-current carrying value of our investment in nasdaq dubai. in connection with the realignment of the ownership structure discussed above, a third-party specialist determined the fair value of nasdaq dubai. based on this valuation, we determined our carrying value of nasdaq dubai was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in an $82 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge. nasdaq omx originally contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to nasdaq dubai in exchange for a 33 1 / 3 % equity stake in nasdaq dubai in february 2008. at that time, nasdaq omx valued its total nasdaq dubai investment at $128 million. prior to the impairment, the investment had a carrying value of $120 million. impairment of agora-x in december 2009, we also recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $5 million to write down our investment in agora-x to its estimated fair value. in december 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our investment in agora-x from 20% to 85%. in evaluating the fair value of the total investment, it was determined that our carrying value of agora-x was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in the $5 million impairment charge noted above. sale of orc shares during the second quarter of 2009, we sold our shares in orc, representing 25.25% of the share capital of orc, to a group of swedish and other international investors for $54 million in cash. as a result of the sale, we recognized a $19 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. debt conversion expense in the third quarter of 2009, we recorded debt conversion expense of $25 million related to an inducement for conversion of most of the 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. the $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of the series a convertible preferred stock issued of $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. see conversion of 3.75% convertible notes, of note 8, debt obligations, and preferred stock, of note 12, stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. asset impairment charges in 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to a long-term available-for-sale investment security. see financial investments, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also recorded a 64 table of contents non-cash impairment loss of $7 million in 2008 from the write-down of finite-lived intangibles assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business. see note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gain (loss) on foreign currency contracts, net the loss on foreign currency contracts was $58 million in 2008 compared with a gain of $44 million in 2007. the loss in 2008 primarily relates to a forward contract entered into to hedge the nok cash payment for the nord pool transaction ($72 million) and our market technology forward currency contracts ($13 million), partially offset by gains on forward contracts entered into to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with omx ab ($27 million). the gain in 2007 primarily relates to option contracts purchased to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with omx ab ($52 million), partially offset by a loss on options contracts purchased to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our acquisition bid for lse ($8 million). see note 15, derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gain on sale of strategic initiative the pre-tax gain on the sale of a strategic initiative was $431 million in 2007. the gain represents the sale of our share capital of lse and is net of costs directly related to the sale of $18 million, primarily broker fees. strategic initiative costs strategic initiative costs were $26 million in 2007. we incurred these costs in connection with our strategic initiative related to lse, including our acquisition bid. in conjunction with the lapse of our final offers for lse in february 2007, these costs were charged to expense. income taxes nasdaq omx income tax provision was $128 million in 2009 compared with $198 million in 2008, and $276 million in 2007. the overall effective tax rate was 32.7% in 2009, 38.6% in 2008 and 34.8% in 2007. the lower effective tax rate in 2009 is primarily due to reductions in valuation allowances associated with certain deferred tax assets, and reductions in current year taxes in jurisdictions outside the u.s. offsetting these decreases is the debt conversion expense, which is not deductible for u.s. tax purposes. the higher effective tax rate in 2008 when compared to 2007 was primarily due to the other-than-temporary impairment loss of $35 million on a long-term available-for-sale investment security, which is not deductible for tax purposes. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. we adopted asc topic 470.20, debt: debt with conversion and other options, on january 1, 2009 and have adjusted all periods presented to reflect the tax impact on the incremental interest expense, which resulted in a change in tax expense and current and non-current deferred tax liabilities. see asc topic 470.20, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and adoption of asc 470.20, of 2.50% convertible senior notes, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or 65 table of contents litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. nasdaq omx and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return, applicable state and local income tax returns, and non-u.s. income tax returns. federal income tax returns for years 2006-2008 are subject to examination by the internal revenue service. several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for years 1996-1998 and 2000-2006 and we are subject to examination for 2007 and 2008. non-u.s. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for years 2002-2008. we anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2009 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. the final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. we anticipate that such adjustments would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. in june 2009, nasdaq omx filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the swedish tax council for advanced tax rulings. the application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on january 1, 2009. we expect to receive a favorable response from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. we recorded the swedish tax benefit as described above in our consolidated financial statements. in 2009 we recorded a tax benefit of $19 million, or $.09 per diluted share. we expect to record recurring quarterly tax benefits of $4 million to $5 million with respect to this issue for the foreseeable future. net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $3 million in 2009, compared to net income of $1 million in 2008 and was immaterial for 2007. the 2009 amount primarily reflects losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. the 2008 noncontrolling interests amount primarily represents 1.2% of omx income for the period february 27, 2008 to august 27, 2008 (the effective date of the purchase of the remaining minority omx ab shares). the 2007 noncontrolling interests relate to reuters investment in the independent research network, a joint venture created to help public companies obtain independent analyst coverage. this investment was reduced to zero due to losses incurred at the independent research network, and all losses of the independent research network were recorded by us. we have discontinued the independent research network operations. liquidity and capital resources global market and economic conditions appear to have rebounded from adverse levels experienced earlier in 2009, and this recovery has reinvigorated financial markets. many lenders and institutional investors have reestablished their lending practices and are now able to provide increased funding to borrowers, which has resulted in improved access to credit and positive liquidity growth. our cost and availability of funding remain healthy and we expect to be positively impacted by continued improvements in the credit markets. as a result of the improvements in the credit markets, on january 15, 2010, nasdaq omx refinanced its existing credit facilities by issuing $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, or the notes, and entering into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. the new credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), a $350 million funded tranche a term loan, or the term loan a, and a $350 million funded tranche x term loan, or the term loan x and, together with the term loan a, the term loans. nasdaq omx applied the net proceeds from the notes, the $700 million funded term loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and related fees. as a result, nasdaq omx terminated the associated credit agreement. see issuance of notes, new credit facility, and repayment of existing credit facility, of note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 66 table of contents we require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures and service our debt and other long-term liabilities. our principal source of funds is cash from our operations. we also have a $250 million revolving credit commitment under our january 2010 credit facility to borrow funds. in addition, we have obtained funds by selling our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. in order to finance our business combination with omx ab, our acquisition of phlx and the nord pool transaction, we incurred additional debt and issued shares of our common stock. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. in the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures and interest payments on our debt. as of december 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents of $594 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt and other long-term liabilities. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our january 2010 credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under the january 2010 credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our cash flows, capital requirements and other commitments on our liquidity and capital resources. cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. restricted cash, which was $60 million as of december 31, 2009 and $141 million as of december 31, 2008, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. non-current restricted cash, which was $50 million at both december 31, 2009 and 2008, relates to a deposit in the guaranty fund of idcg and is classified as non-current restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. the following tables summarize our cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows: december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 percentage change (in millions) cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 594 $ 374 58.8 % (1) cash and cash equivalents exclude restricted cash which is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements. 67 table of contents year ended december 31, percentage change 2009 2008 (in millions) cash provided by operating activities $ 582 $ 216 # cash used in investing activities (53 ) (3,149 ) (98.3 )% cash provided by (used in) financing activities (336 ) 2,029 # effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 27 (47 ) # # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents increased $220 million from december 31, 2008 primarily due to positive cash flows from operating activities, partially offset by payments of outstanding debt obligations. changes in cash flows cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2009: net income attributable to nasdaq omx of $266 million, plus: non-cash items of $268 million comprised primarily of loss from unconsolidated investees, net of $107 million, depreciation and amortization of $104 million, share-based compensation of $35 million, debt conversion expense of $25 million, accretion of 2.50% convertible senior notes of $13 million and asset retirements and impairment charges of $13 million, partially offset by gain on sales of businesses of $12 million and deferred taxes, net of $10 million. decrease in other assets of $130 million primarily due to a decrease in restricted cash as a result of the release of nasdaq omx commodities clearing capital due to changes in our clearing capital model. increase in section 31 fees payable to sec of $88 million due to higher section 31 fees as a result of rate increases. decrease in receivables, net of $33 million primarily due to decreases in our transaction services trade receivables reflecting increased tape rebates, which are netted against our tape revenue billings. partially offset by a: decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125 million primarily due to lower rebates as a result of decreased trading activity, as well as the wind-down of activities at carpenter moore and our broker services operations in the united kingdom, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009. decrease in accrued personnel costs of $41 million primarily due to a decrease in our incentive compensation accrual reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a reduction in the number of employees in 2009. decrease in other accrued liabilities of $37 million primarily due to decreases in accrued taxes as a result of payments made. 68 table of contents the following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2008: net income attributable to nasdaq omx of $314 million, plus: non-cash items of $98 million comprised primarily of depreciation and amortization expense of $93 million, loss on foreign currency contracts, net of $58 million, asset impairment charges of $42 million and share-based compensation of $26 million, partially offset by deferred taxes, net of $107 million and income from unconsolidated investees, net of $27 million. decrease in receivables, net of $31 million primarily due to lower section 31 fees as a result of rate decreases. increase in accrued personnel costs of $21 million primarily due to additional incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance. increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $20 million primarily due to additional liquidity rebates from increased trade volume. increase in other liabilities of $18 million primarily due to additional liabilities for the nasdaq omx phlx benefit plans. partially offset by a: increase in other assets of $181 million primarily due to the increase in the restricted cash balance as of december 31, 2008 due to regulatory and other requirements as a result of our transaction with nord pool and acquisition of idcg. decrease in section 31 fees payable to sec of $54 million mainly due to lower section 31 fees as a result of rate decreases. decrease in deferred revenue of $42 million primarily due to a decrease in the initial listing fees deferred revenue balance as a result of a decrease in new listings during 2008, as well as the amortization of omx annual listing fees. decrease in other accrued liabilities of $9 million primarily due to a decrease in income tax payable as a result of paying the 2007 tax liability related to the sale of our share capital in lse. we expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, share-based compensation and the timing and amount of other payments that we make. cash used in investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2009 is primarily due to cash used in connection with the purchase of trading securities, as well as purchases of property and equipment. partially offsetting cash used was cash received from sales and redemptions of trading securities and our available-for-sale investment in oslo, as well as cash received from the sale of our 25.25% equity method investment in orc. in 2008, cash used in investing activities primarily related to our business combination with omx ab, acquisitions of phlx, bsx and certain businesses of nord pool, our purchase of a majority stake in idcg and other acquisitions, net of cash acquired, as well as the acquisition of a 33 1 / 3 % equity stake in nasdaq dubai and the equity stake in agora-x, for total cash paid of $2,999 million. cash provided by (used in) financing activities cash used in financing activities for 2009 consisted of $225 million in principal payments made on our term loan facility (defined below under credit facilities) and a $71 million payment to repay in full the vendor note issued to the previous owners of nord pool in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses of nord 69 table of contents pool. in addition, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs, and made a $4 million payment on our other credit facilities in 2009. we also made a $9 million payment in connection with an inducement for the conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes. for further discussion of the $9 million inducement payment, see note 8, debt obligations, and preferred stock, of note 12, stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. in 2008, cash provided by financing activities consisted of the proceeds from the issuance of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes and $2,000 million in senior secured indebtedness under our credit facilities. see credit facilities below for further discussion. the 2008 proceeds from the 2.50% convertible senior notes and credit facilities were partially offset by the refinancing of $353 million of omx ab outstanding debt obligations at the time of the business combination. in addition, we made a $75 million principal payment in 2008 on our term loan facility. capital resources and working capital working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $587 million at december 31, 2009, compared with $351 million at december 31, 2008, an increase of $236 million, or 67.2%. we have historically been able to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet working capital requirements. at december 31, 2009, we had total contractual debt obligations of $2,146 million, of which $225 million is due within one year. see below for further discussion. 3.75% convertible notes due 2012 in 2009, most of the holders of our outstanding 3.75% convertible notes agreed to convert their remaining outstanding notes into common stock in accordance with the terms of the notes, which resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of 8,246,680 shares of our common stock. see conversion of 3.75% convertible notes, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013 in the first quarter of 2008, in connection with the business combination with omx ab, we completed the offering of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013. in 2009, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of the notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs of $0.8 million. these gains were recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. the aggregate principal amount outstanding on these notes as of december 31, 2008 was $475 million. as a result of the repurchase, the remaining aggregate principal amount outstanding on these notes as of december 31, 2009 was $428 million. it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and we are permitted to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. credit facilities in connection with the business combination with omx ab, on february 27, 2008, nasdaq omx entered into a credit agreement which provided for up to $2,075 million of senior secured loans, which included (i) a five-year, $2,000 million senior secured term loan facility, or the term loan facility, which consisted of (a) a $1,050 million term loan facility allocated to the omx ab business combination; (b) a $650 million term loan facility allocated to the acquisition of phlx, and (c) a $300 million term loan facility allocated to the nord pool transaction, and (ii) a five-year, $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility, with a letter of credit subfacility and swingline loan subfacility, or the revolving credit facility, and together with the term loan facility, the credit facilities. the revolving credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2009 and 2008. total debt obligations outstanding under the credit facilities were $1,700 million at december 31, 2009 and $1,925 million at december 31, 2008. 70 table of contents under the provisions of our credit facilities, we were required to maintain approximately 30% of our debt structure on a fixed rate basis for two years from the date of the credit agreement. as such, in august 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of funds borrowed under our credit facilities, which was floating rate debt, to a fixed rate basis through august 2011. the interest rate swap was fixed to a base rate of 3.73% plus the current credit spread of 200 basis points as of december 31, 2009. the credit spread (not to exceed 200 basis points) was subject to change based upon the leverage ratio in accordance with the credit facilities. in connection with the repayment of our credit facilities in january 2010, we terminated these float-to-fixed interest rate swaps. see interest rate swaps, of note 8, debt obligations, cash flow hedges, of note 15, derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, and issuance of notes, new credit facility, and repayment of existing credit facility, of note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as stated above, on january 15, 2010, nasdaq omx issued $1 billion of senior notes and entered into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility which provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), and $700 million of funded term loans. nasdaq omx applied the net proceeds from the notes, the $700 million funded term loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities and related fees. as a result, nasdaq omx terminated the associated credit agreement. see issuance of notes, new credit facility, and repayment of existing credit facility, of note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona and u.s. dollar, totaled $417 million ($185 million which is available to be pledged as collateral and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was drawn at december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2008, these credit facilities totaled $246 million, of which $4 million was drawn. amounts drawn are included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. nasdaq omx corporate debt was recently upgraded by s&amp;p in january 2010 (bbb) and moody in november 2009 (baa3). see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 3.75% convertible notes, 2.50% convertible senior notes and credit facilities. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with minimum capital requirements. at december 31, 2009, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $8.9 million, or $8.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2009, nasdaq options services was also required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $4.5 million, or $4.2 million in excess of the minimum amount required. other capital requirements nasdaq options services is also required to maintain a $2.0 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with the occ. 71 table of contents derivative clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for nasdaq omx stockholm, nasdaq omx commodities and idcg. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2009, we were required to maintain regulatory capital of $263 million which is comprised of: $30 million of restricted cash; $50 million of non-current restricted cash; and $183 million primarily in swedish government debt securities. these securities are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2009. in addition, we have available credit facilities of $232 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. omx ab share purchase on august 27, 2008, through compulsory acquisition procedures under swedish law, nasdaq omx received advanced title for the remaining 1.2% of omx ab shares held by omx ab shareholders for an aggregate consideration of sek 370.8 million ($61.7 million at august 27, 2008). as a result of the compulsory acquisition procedures, omx ab is now wholly-owned by nasdaq omx. the additional purchase price for the shares acquired was included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2008. in accordance with the compulsory acquisition procedures, nasdaq omx was required to maintain cash amounts greater than the total amount due, and as such, segregated sek 440 million ($73.2 million as of august 27, 2008) in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2008. in february 2009, nasdaq omx paid the full liability of sek 370.8 million ($41 million at february 28, 2009) plus interest to holders of the remaining 1.2% of omx ab shares. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq omx has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2009: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (see note 8, debt obligations ) (1) $ 2,286 $ 280 $ 1,381 $ 605 $ 20 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (see note 16, leases ) 586 105 129 120 232 other obligations 14 7 7 total $ 2,886 $ 392 $ 1,517 $ 725 $ 252 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. the interest on our credit facilities reflects the net interest payment after consideration of interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of our credit facility to fixed rate debt. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. a weighted-average interest rate of 2.64% at december 31, 2009 was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our credit facilities. the 2.50% convertible senior notes contractual obligation for interest was calculated on a 360 day basis at the contractual fixed rate of 2.50% multiplied by the aggregate principal amount of $428 million at december 31, 2009. as noted above, all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities were repaid in january 2010. 72 table of contents as a result of the repayment of our credit facilities and the issuance of our new notes and term loans, our debt obligations by contract maturity will be as follows: total, $2,645 million; less than 1 year, $146 million; 1-3 years, $425 million; 3-5 years, $889 million; and more than 5 years, $1,185 million. the interest on the notes was calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rates multiplied by the aggregate principal amounts. a rate of 2.23% was utilized to compute the interest on the term loans. off-balance sheet arrangements brokerage activities nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouses, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. to mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. however, we believe that the potential for nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. guarantees issued, credit facilities available and collateral received for clearing operations through our clearing operations in the derivative markets of nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. the amount of these commitments is calculated on the gross exposure between the clearinghouses. as collateral for these obligations, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities. at december 31, 2009, financial guarantees pledged as collateral totaled $4 million. credit facilities available to be pledged as collateral totaled $185 million, none of which was utilized as of december 31, 2009. in addition, we obtained credit facilities to satisfy regulatory requirements totaling $232 million, none of which has been utilized as of december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2008, these credit facilities totaled $246 million, of which $4 million was drawn. amounts drawn are included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. we require our customers to pledge collateral and meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. total customer pledged collateral with nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm was $6.1 billion at december 31, 2009 and $5.4 billion at december 31, 2008. this pledged collateral is held by a custodian bank. since these funds are not held by nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm and they are not available for our use, we do not receive any interest income on these funds. customer pledged cash collateral held by idcg was $3 million at december 31, 2009 and is included in restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belongs to idcg. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. 73 table of contents other guarantees we have provided other guarantees as of december 31, 2009 of $30 million, primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. in addition, for certain market technology contracts, we have performance guarantees of $5 million related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. these guarantees totaled $31 million at december 31, 2008. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as a result of our operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, equity risk and credit risk. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the majority of our financial assets and liabilities are based on floating rates and fixed rates with an outstanding maturity or reset date falling in less than one year. the following table summarizes our significant exposure to interest rate risk as of december 31, 2009: financial assets financial liabilities (2) negative impact of a 100 bp adverse shift in interest rate (3) (in millions) floating rate positions (1) $ 787 $ 1,500 $ 15 fixed rate positions ( 4 )( 5 ) 233 646 4 total $ 1,020 $ 2,146 $ 19 (1) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (2) represents total contractual debt obligations. (3) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (4) financial assets primarily consist of our swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 2.67 years. see note 14, fair value of financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (5) financial liabilities include $200 million of our credit facilities which were swapped to fixed rate using float-to-fixed interest rate swaps in the third quarter of 2008. in connection with the repayment of our credit facilities in january 2010, we terminated these float-to-fixed interest rate swaps. see interest rate swaps, of note 8, debt obligations, cash flow hedges, of note 15, derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, and issuance of notes, new credit facility, and repayment of existing credit facility, of note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate positions. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2009 positions, each 1.0% change in interest rates on our net floating rate positions would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $15 million in total as reflected in the table above. 74 table of contents we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial investments, which total $233 million at december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2009, these fixed rate positions have an average outstanding maturity or reset date falling in more than one year. a shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve would in aggregate impact the fair value of these positions by approximately $6 million. the average duration of the portfolio was 2.67 years. the net effect of such a yield curve shift, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $4 million. the aggregate impact of a 100 basis point adverse shift in interest rates on our fixed and floating rate positions as of december 31, 2008 would have been $16 million. foreign currency exchange rate risk as an international company, we are subject to currency translation risk. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro and norwegian krone. our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2009 0.1315 1.3941 0.1598 # percentage of revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 21.0 % 4.3 % 3.1 % 6.1 % percentage of operating income 11.3 % 6.4 % 3.5 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (30 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) $ (9 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (7 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. for the year ended december 31, 2008, our primary exposures to foreign currencies were to the swedish krona, euro and danish krone. the average foreign currency exchange rate to the u.s. dollar in 2008 was 0.1516 for the swedish krona, 1.4712 for the euro, and 0.1963 for the danish krone. of our total consolidated operating income for the year ended december 31, 2008, 2% was denominated in swedish krona, 19% in euros, and 2% in danish krones. equity risk our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. our primary exposure to this equity risk as of december 31, 2009 is presented by foreign currency in the following table: net investment impact on consolidated equity of a 10% decrease in foreign currency (millions of dollars) swedish krona $ 320 $ 32 euro 141 14 norwegian krone 133 13 danish krone 92 9 75 table of contents the aggregate impact on our consolidated equity of a 10% decline in the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone as of december 31, 2008 would have been $49 million. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of the nscc. system trades in derivative contracts executed in the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is also liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc and occ rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc and occ. historically, neither nasdaq execution services nor nasdaq options services has incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. see guarantees issued, credit facilities available and collateral received for clearing operations, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. on an ongoing basis we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparty creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 76 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. the following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. management estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. for a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. revenue recognition issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. market technology revenues market technology revenues are derived from three primary sources: licensing, support and project revenues, facility management services revenues and other revenues. license, support and project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vsoe of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. many projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. when significant production, modification or customization of our software is not required, revenue and costs are recognized over the entire term of the arrangement, once the software has been delivered and services have commenced. we include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 77 table of contents reserve for bad debts the reserve for bad debts is maintained at a level that management believes to be sufficient to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the reserve is increased by the provision for bad debts which is charged against operating results and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the amount charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a continuous assessment of the collectability of each account, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with the particular customer. in circumstances where a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations is known (i.e., bankruptcy filings), we record a specific provision for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. due to changing economic, business and market conditions, we review the reserve for bad debts monthly and make changes to the reserve through the provision for bad debts as appropriate. if circumstances change (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to pay), our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2009, goodwill totaled $4.8 billion and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $0.9 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. goodwill for our three reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using october 1 st carrying values. we assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. for goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. for indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. however, disruptions to our business such as continued economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform an impairment test for goodwill for some or all of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future. as of december 31, 2009, there were no reporting units deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. also, we do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets at risk of failing our impairment test. there have been no significant events since the timing of our impairment tests that would have triggered additional impairment testing. no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity method investments 78 table of contents for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. in 2009, we recorded losses of $87 million due to impairment charges related to nasdaq dubai and agora-x. these charges were included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the consolidated statements of income. see note 5, equity method investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of finite-lived intangible assets of $7 million primarily related to our insurance agency business, which was part of corporate services within our issuer services segment. this charge was included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income. see note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. no other impairments of long-lived assets were recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007. amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated average useful lives as follows: technology: 1.5 10 years customer relationships: 10 30 years other: 1 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 3, acquisitions and strategic initiatives, and note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and 79 table of contents the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. pension and post-retirement benefits pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. we assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. in evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. see note 10, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. actuarial assumptions are based upon management best estimates and judgment. the expected rate of return on plan assets for our u.s. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. the long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. while we consider the pension plans recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return. share-based compensation the accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and psus. prior to october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock awards and after october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock units. we estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the black-scholes valuation model. assumptions used in the black-scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. the risk free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. our computation of expected volatility is based on a combination of historical and market-based implied volatility. our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends. before our credit facilities were in place, it was not our policy to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. see note 11, share-based compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 80 table of contents software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. we capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software. under our market technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. foreign currency translation foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are translated using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in stockholders equity. assets and liabilities are generally translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate. recently adopted accounting pronouncements asc topic 105 in june 2009, the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, issued the fasb accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 105, generally accepted accounting principles, as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental u.s. gaap. the provisions in this guidance do not change current u.s. gaap, but are intended to simplify user access to all authoritative u.s. gaap by providing all the authoritative literature related to a particular topic in one place. all existing accounting standard documents were superseded and all other accounting literature that is not included in the fasb codification is considered non-authoritative. this guidance is effective for interim and annual periods ending after september 15, 2009 and, accordingly, was effective for our annual period ended december 31, 2009. the adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our financial condition or results of operations, but did impact our financial reporting process by eliminating all references to pre-codification standards. asc topic 715 in december 2008, the fasb issued new accounting guidance contained within asc topic 715, compensation retirement benefits. this guidance requires that information about pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets be disclosed, on an annual basis, based on the fair value disclosure requirements of asc topic 820, fair value measurements and disclosures. the guidance requires us to separate plan assets into three fair value hierarchy levels and provide a rollforward of the changes in fair value of plan assets classified as level 3, if any. for further information on the three fair value hierarchy levels, see note 14, fair value of financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. this guidance is effective for nasdaq omx fiscal year end 2009. since the new provisions of this guidance require only additional disclosures about our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets, the adoption of the new provisions did not affect our financial position or results of operations. 81 table of contents asc topic 805 on january 1, 2009, we adopted on a prospective basis asc topic 805, business combinations. this recently issued guidance significantly changed how business acquisitions were accounted for and will impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods requiring: more assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date; liabilities related to contingent consideration to be remeasured at fair value in each subsequent reporting period; and an acquirer to expense acquisition-related costs (e.g., deal fees for attorneys, accountants, investment bankers). the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2009. asc topic 810 on january 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within asc topic 810, consolidations, which changed the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which are now characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. this recently issued guidance requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing noncontrolling interests. all other requirements under the new guidance have been applied prospectively. noncontrolling interests were $17 million as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. asc topic 815 on january 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within asc topic 815 derivatives and hedging, which enhanced the disclosure requirements about our derivative instruments and hedging activities, thereby improving the transparency of financial reporting. the adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our financial condition or results of operations but will impact disclosures of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. the additional disclosures required under this guidance are included in note 15, derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, to the consolidated financial statements. asc topic 470.20 on january 1, 2009, we adopted asc topic 470.20, debt: debt with conversion and other options, which is applicable to our 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013. this guidance requires us to separately account for the liability and equity components of a convertible debt instrument in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. the guidance also requires bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt as part of interest expense being reflected in the income statement. we have adjusted all periods presented to reflect the reclassification of a portion of the carrying value of the 2.50% convertible senior notes from debt to equity and the accretion of the debt discount as part of interest expense. the incremental effect of adopting the provisions under this guidance on our consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2008 was additional interest expense of $11 million and a tax benefit of $5 million, resulting in a decrease to our net income attributable to nasdaq omx of $6 million, or $.03 per diluted share. the incremental effects of adopting the provisions under this guidance on our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2008 are presented in the following table (in millions). before adoption of asc 470.20 effect of adopting asc 470.20 after adoption of asc 470.20 deferred tax liabilities $ 14 $ 5 $ 19 non-current deferred tax liabilities 672 24 696 total debt obligations 2,598 (74 ) (1) 2,524 total liabilities 8,494 (45 ) 8,449 additional paid-in capital 3,518 51 (2) 3,569 retained earnings 1,350 (6 ) 1,344 total nasdaq omx stockholders equity 4,241 45 4,286 82 table of contents (1) as of december 31, 2008, the unamortized debt discount on the 2.50% convertible senior notes included in debt obligations in the consolidated balance sheets was $74 million. this amount will be accreted as part of interest expense through the maturity date of the convertible debt of august 15, 2013. (2) as of december 31, 2008, the equity component of the 2.50% convertible senior notes included in additional paid-in capital in the consolidated balance sheets was $51 million. this amount is calculated as follows: $85 million of excess principal of the 2.50% convertible senior notes over the carrying amount less $34 million of deferred taxes. the deferred tax liability is determined by multiplying the $85 million of excess principal of the 2.50% convertible senior notes over the carrying amount by the u.s. marginal tax rate of 39.55%. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes. asc topic 825 on april 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within asc topic 825, financial instruments, which requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments in interim as well as in annual financial statements. this recently issued guidance, which was effective for us in our interim financial reporting period ended june 30, 2009, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and disclosures. see note 14, fair value of financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements for disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. asc topic 855 in june 2009, we adopted asc topic 855, subsequent events, which provides guidance to establish general standards of accounting for, and disclosures of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. this guidance requires entities to disclose the date through which subsequent events were evaluated as well as the basis for why that date was selected. the guidance, which was effective for us in our interim financial reporting period ended june 30, 2009, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and disclosures. see note 19, subsequent events, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the subsequent events that occurred after december 31, 2009. recently issued accounting pronouncements asc topic 605.25 in october 2009, the fasb issued authoritative guidance on asc 605.25, revenue recognition multiple-element arrangements. this guidance modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple-elements, such as product, software, services or support, to a customer at different times as part of a single revenue generating transaction. this standard provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. the standard also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements . this accounting guidance is effective for us beginning january 1, 2011, but may be early adopted as of the first quarter of 2010 or through a retrospective application to all revenue arrangements for all periods presented in the financial statements. we are currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, on our consolidated financial statements and timing of the adoption of this guidance. asc topic 985.605 in october 2009, the fasb amended the existing accounting guidance for how entities account for multiple-element arrangements that include both software and hardware elements, which typically resulted in the sale of hardware being accounted for under the software recognition rules. the software revenue recognition guidance in asc 985-605, software-revenue recognition, changes revenue recognition for tangible products containing software elements and non-software elements. the tangible element of the product is always outside of the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, and the software elements of tangible products when the software element and non-software elements function together to deliver the product essential functionality are outside of the scope of the software rules. as a result, both the hardware and 83 table of contents qualifying related software elements are excluded from the scope of the software revenue guidance and accounted for under the revised multiple-element revenue recognition guidance discussed above. this accounting guidance is effective for us beginning january 1, 2011 with early adoption permitted. however, early adoption is permitted only when asc 605.25 is also early adopted as of the same period. we are currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2009 2nd qtr 2009 3rd qtr 2009 4th qtr 2009 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 895 $ 889 $ 810 $ 815 cost of revenues (526 ) (522 ) (461 ) (446 ) revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 369 367 349 369 total operating expenses 203 208 218 220 operating income 166 159 131 149 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 94 $ 69 $ 60 $ 43 basic earnings per share $ 0.47 $ 0.34 $ 0.30 $ 0.20 diluted earnings per share $ 0.44 $ 0.33 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 1st qtr 2008 2nd qtr 2008 3rd qtr 2008 4th qtr 2008 total revenues $ 814 $ 822 $ 990 $ 1,025 cost of revenues (536 ) (442 ) (591 ) (622 ) revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 278 380 399 403 total operating expenses 145 225 227 223 operating income 133 155 172 180 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 121 $ 100 $ 58 $ 35 basic earnings per share $ 0.75 $ 0.50 $ 0.29 $ 0.17 diluted earnings per share $ 0.69 $ 0.47 $ 0.27 $ 0.17 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 23 risk factors in this form 10-k. ii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2011 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives; the impact of pricing changes; tax benefits; the cost and availability of liquidity; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading volume or listed companies; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 . 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2010, the nasdaq stock market was home to 2,778 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $4.6 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, two options markets, a futures market and a derivatives clearinghouse. we also engage in riskless principal trading of over-the-counter, or otc, power and gas contracts. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic, and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. collectively, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies called nasdaq omx first north. as of december 31, 2010, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, together with nasdaq omx first north, were home to 780 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $1.1 trillion. we also operate nasdaq omx armenia. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities operates the world largest power derivatives exchange, one of europe largest carbon exchanges and n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the financial industry regulatory authority, or finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. prior to operating as an exchange, the nasdaq stock market operated under an sec-approved plan that provided a delegation of legal authority from finra to the nasdaq stock market to operate as a stock market. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai, and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. concurrently with the business combination with omx ab, we also acquired a 33 1 / 3 % equity stake in 2 table of contents nasdaq dubai limited, or nasdaq dubai. in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. in may 2010, as part of this realignment, nasdaq dubai became a wholly-owned subsidiary of dubai financial market pjsc, or dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. nasdaq omx received a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for the equity interest in nasdaq dubai. in july 2008, we completed our acquisition of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, expanding our presence in the derivatives market. phlx, renamed nasdaq omx phlx llc, operates as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market, our options platform that was launched in march 2008. in august 2008, we acquired the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx. we used the bsx license to create a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx, which was launched in january 2009. in october 2008, we acquired nord pool asa s, or nord pool s, clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries. as a result of the acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in december 2008, we acquired a majority interest in the international derivatives clearing group, or idcg, and idcg became an independently operated subsidiary of nasdaq omx. idcg provides central counterparty, or ccp, clearing for interest rate swap products through its clearinghouse subsidiary, international derivatives clearinghouse, llc, or idch. in january 2009, we acquired a 22% stake in european multilateral clearing facility n.v., or emcf, a leading european clearinghouse. in addition, we signed an agreement with emcf to use its ccp services for all nordic cash equity transactions. in march 2010, with the purchase of the assets of north american energy credit and clearing corp., nasdaq omx expanded its presence in the otc energy commodity markets. the acquisition of these assets was effected through our newly-established subsidiary nasdaq omx commodities clearing company, or nocc. in may 2010, we acquired nord pool asa, a derivatives trading market. in august 2010, we completed our acquisition of smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. this acquisition is part of our strategy to diversify the market technology business and enter the surveillance and compliance market. we believe that this acquisition will strengthen our position as the leading technology partner to marketplaces worldwide. in december 2010, we completed our acquisitions of ften, inc., or ften, a leading provider of real-time risk management, or rtrm, solutions for the financial securities market and zoomvision mamato, or zvm, a company that provides live webcasting services primarily for investor relations professionals. zvm is the leading provider of webcasting services in northern europe. competitive strengths premier global exchange company. we are a premier global exchange company that is the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2010, the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic had an average daily trading volume of 8.6 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $15.1 trillion. in addition, across our markets, we had 3,558 listings representing 42 countries as of december 31, 2010. we have many of the world largest companies listed on our marketplaces. our wholly-owned subsidiary the nasdaq stock market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the u.s. leader in global exchange technology. we believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. as the world first electronic stock exchange, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 30 years. our inet platform processes trades at sub-millisecond transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. in addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at ten times the average daily volume allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. 3 table of contents furthermore, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including china (hong kong), japan, singapore, australia and the u.s. our genium inet &reg; offering, based on proven inet technology, provides technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. we believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms. diversified operations and products. we have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. in addition, our recent acquisitions, investments and strategic initiatives have significantly diversified our product offerings, particularly in the derivatives trading and clearing, clearing of resale and repurchase agreements, commodities and surveillance technology businesses. proven and disciplined management team. we have a proven and disciplined management team that has substantial industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. led by robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, our executive management team has significant experience in the financial services industry. we believe the nasdaq omx management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities. commitment to regulatory integrity. as a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. we are charged by regulators with maintaining fair and orderly markets for the benefit of investors, and we work to fulfill this obligation in several ways. in some instances, we have entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. in addition, we operate real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring and enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. we are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the nasdaq omx brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets. products and services we operate in three segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our market services segment, 22.6% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our market services segment, 22.7% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our 2008 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our market services segment, 23.5% was from our issuer services segment, 8.2% was from our market technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues. see note 18, segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. 4 table of contents u.s. transaction services in the u.s., we offer trading in cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs on the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx futures exchange, or nfx, and engage in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts through nocc. our transaction-based platforms in the u.s. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. cash equities trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 18.8% of all u.s. cash equities volume for 2010. in january 2009, we launched a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx. with nasdaq omx bx, we offer a second quote within the u.s. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. we have been able to leverage our inet trading system, which runs the nasdaq stock market, to operate nasdaq omx bx, providing customers an additional fast and efficient cash equity securities market. in 2010, nasdaq omx bx matched an average of approximately 3.3% of all u.s. cash equities volume. in october 2010, we launched a third u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx psx. this new market utilizes a price-size priority model and also runs on inet technology, leveraging the speed and efficiency benefits offered throughout nasdaq omx globally. our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platforms: provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer). provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross and ipo cross. provide anonymity to market participants. in other words, participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. trade reporting. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, nyse amex and other exchanges. through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched 5 table of contents internally, or internalized, and is submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf charges market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. u.s. derivative trading and clearing. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx phlx for the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and currency options. as of december 31, 2010, nasdaq omx phlx was the largest options market in the u.s. nasdaq omx phlx operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market as a distinct market alongside the nasdaq options market. during the year ended december 31, 2010, nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market had an average combined market share of approximately 27.4% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 23.4% at nasdaq omx phlx and approximately 4.0% at the nasdaq options market. together, the 27.4% represented the largest share of the u.s. equity and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors and high frequency trading firms, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often prefer to trade on the floor. in the u.s., we also operate nfx which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. most futures traded on nfx clear at the options clearing corporation, or occ. in addition, nfx serves as the designated contract market for interest rate swap futures that are cleared through idch. through idch, our majority-owned subsidiary idcg brings a centrally-cleared solution to the largest segment of the otc derivatives marketplace, specifically interest rate derivatives. idch acts as the ccp for clearing interest rate swap futures contracts. idch utilizes nasdaq omx matching and clearing technology to clear and settle these interest rate derivative products. with the purchase of the assets of north american energy credit and clearing corp. in march 2010 by our newly-established subsidiary nocc, nasdaq omx also expanded its presence in the otc energy commodity markets. acquisition of ften. in december 2010, we completed our acquisition of ften, a leading provider of rtrm solutions for the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, ften is well positioned to grow as the industry is becoming more focused on solutions for effectively managing risk. market participants are seeking tools that provide real-time, low latency enterprise-wide risk management, market awareness and control. ften technology provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. we will offer ften solutions to our global base of broker-dealers and the international exchange community. european transaction services nordics. nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds, trading and clearing services for derivatives, and beginning september 2010, clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic market data. trading is offered in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products. nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq 6 table of contents omx copenhagen also offer trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. in 2009, nasdaq omx expanded its trading offering to include cash equities listed in norway and launched a new portfolio of norwegian derivatives products. the offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all nordic cash equity products on one platform. nasdaq omx has been the second largest market for trading in norwegian stocks since 2009. through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with nasdaq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we also act as the counterparty for certain trades on otc derivative contracts. the derivatives are not used by nasdaq omx stockholm for the purpose of trading on its own behalf. as the legal counterparty of each transaction, nasdaq omx stockholm bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and the seller in the contract. the counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the financial supervisory authority of the applicable country, which requires us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. the structure and operations of nasdaq omx stockholm differ from other clearinghouses. nasdaq omx stockholm is not a member-owned organization, does not maintain a guarantee fund to which members contribute and does not enforce loss sharing assessments amongst members. in addition, unlike other clearinghouses, it does not record any margin deposits and guarantee funds, as all risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belongs to the counterparty. market participants must provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial collateral placed when entering into the transaction. acceptable collateral is cash and eligible securities in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee. all collateral is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx in the event of default. in addition, market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. for nasdaq omx stockholm, following the completion of a transaction, settlement primarily takes place between parties by net cash settlement or with the exchange of securities and funds. for those transactions where there is an exchange of securities and funds, the transfer of ownership is registered and the securities are stored on the owner behalf. beginning in october 2009, most of our cash equity trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic are centrally cleared by emcf, a leading european clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake. in september 2010, nasdaq omx launched a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market together with market participants. as a result of an agreement between the swedish money market council and nasdaq omx, the entire swedish interbank resale and repurchase agreement market will ultimately be cleared through nasdaq omx stockholm. similar to derivative clearing discussed above, through our clearing operations in the resale and repurchase markets with nasdsq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each resale and repurchase contract traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we only clear these transactions once a bilateral contract between members has been entered into whereby the two members have agreed on all terms in the transaction. the resale and repurchase agreements are not used for financing purposes by nasdaq omx. as the legal counterparty of each transaction, nasdaq omx stockholm bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and the seller in a resale and repurchase agreement. as discussed above, the structure and operations for the resale and repurchase market is similar to the derivative market. for resale and repurchase agreements, collateral is not held by nasdaq omx stockholm. all resale and repurchase clearing activities are transacted under our clearing member agreements that give us the right, in the event of default, to liquidate collateral pledged between the clearing members and to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty. 7 table of contents pledged collateral, which is transferred through nasdaq omx stockholm at initiation of the bilateral contract between the two clearing member counterparties, primarily consists of swedish government debt securities. market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. in the event that one of the participants cannot fulfill its obligation to deliver or receive the underlying security at the agreed upon price, nasdaq omx stockholm is required to buy or sell the security in the open market to fulfill its obligation. in order to protect itself against a price movement in the value of the underlying security, or price risk, nasdaq omx stockholm requires all participants to provide additional margin, which is valued on a daily basis and is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx stockholm in the event of default. baltics. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). during the first quarter of 2010, we acquired the remaining 7% minority holding in nasdaq omx tallinn and an additional ownership stake of 0.4% in nasdaq omx vilnius, both for immaterial amounts. as of december 31, 2010, nasdaq omx owns 100% of nasdaq omx tallinn, 95% of nasdaq omx vilnius and 93% of nasdaq omx riga. in addition, nasdaq omx tallinn owns 100% of the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq omx riga owns 100% of the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq omx vilnius owns 40% of the central securities depository in lithuania. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, nasdaq omx offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. pan-european. in the second quarter of 2010, we made a strategic decision to close the business of our pan-european multilateral trading facility nasdaq omx europe, or neuro. we retained our london office and data hub, where we support trading and market data clients, run the u.k. power exchange n2ex and manage our overseas listings operation. our decision to close the business of neuro will not have a significant impact on our future results of operations. commodities trading and clearing. nasdaq omx commodities offers derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. with our acquisition of nord pool, nasdaq omx commodities offering now includes the world largest power derivatives exchange and one of europe largest carbon exchanges. nasdaq omx commodities has 361 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. nasdaq omx commodities offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. nasdaq omx commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the ccp. similar to derivative clearing and resale and repurchase agreement clearing on nasdaq omx stockholm discussed above, through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with nasdaq omx commodities, we are also the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we also act as the counterparty for certain trades on otc derivative contracts. the derivatives are not used by nasdaq omx commodities for the purpose of trading on its own behalf. as the legal counterparty of each transaction, nasdaq omx commodities bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and seller in the contract. the counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the financial supervisory authority of the applicable country, which require us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. nasdaq omx commodities utilizes the same structure and operations as the derivative markets for nasdaq omx stockholm, discussed above. trading on the contracts can take place up until the delivery period which may occur over a period of several years. 8 table of contents in january 2010, nasdaq omx commodities and nord pool spot launched n2ex, a marketplace for physical uk power contracts. access services we provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. the financial information exchange product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. market participants may also access our systems using qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. finally, firms may use former inet protocols, such as ouch and rash, to access our single trading platform. as an alternative to firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the nasdaq workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. market data we earn market data revenues from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are participants in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive securities information processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. u.s. market data products. our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. 9 table of contents we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 1,800 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer totalview enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq basic, launched in 2009, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information; nasdaq last sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals; nasdaq market replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for nasdaq, nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities at any point in time; nasdaq omx datastore, which is designed to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content; mutual fund quotation service, a service for over 26,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; mutual fund dissemination service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds; global index dissemination service, released in 2009, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; russelltick, released in 2010, which is a data feed that consolidates the distribution of the russell family of indexes; and top of phlx options plus orders, or topo plus orders, which is a data product for the nasdaq omx phlx options market. european market data products. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic, nasdaq omx baltic and nasdaq omx commodities offer european market data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic, nasdaq omx baltic and nasdaq omx commodities for four classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. 10 table of contents we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. significant european market data products include: nordic equity totalview, which provides full market insight into the order book, news and analysis data for all nordic cash equities. the product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators; nordic derivative level 2, which provides listing details, trade information, derived information and order book information with the five best levels of bid and ask prices with the respective total quantity; nordic fixed income level 2, which provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures; and european last sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. the primary services consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group approximately 3,600 companies representing approximately $5.7 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2010. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. global listing services our global listing services business includes our u.s. listings, european listings and corporate solutions businesses. u.s. listings. companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. 11 table of contents companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2010, a total of 2,778 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,323 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 975 on the nasdaq global market and 480 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2010, the nasdaq stock market attracted 195 new listings. included in these listings were 89 ipos, almost 47% of the total u.s. ipos in 2010. the new listings were comprised of the following: total new listings on the nasdaq stock market 195 switches from nyse/nyse amex 12 ipos 89 upgrades from otc 54 etfs, structured products and other listings 40 in 2010, the following three nyse-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing $9.6 billion in market capitalization: hasbro, inc., avis budget group, inc. and potlatch corporation. a total of eight companies switched from nyse amex and one company switched from nyse arca to the nasdaq stock market in 2010. european listings. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2010, a total of 780 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. measured in terms of the market capitalization of listed companies, as of december 31, 2010, nasdaq omx nordic was the second largest marketplace in europe for it companies, the largest marketplace in the world for the paper industry, the second largest marketplace in the world for apparel retail companies and third largest marketplace in the world for the industrial machinery industry. our european listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments. customers issue securities in the forms of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds and fixed-income related products. in 2010, a total of 25 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. corporate solutions. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. through our corporate solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. we provide corporate solutions in the following key areas of focus: investor relations . we provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. market monitoring . we offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance. 12 table of contents board practice . we offer management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness. global visibility. we provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our marketsite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies. portal . in addition to traditional public offerings, sec rule 144a provides public and private companies with another option for effectively raising capital at a lower cost and with fewer regulatory hurdles. we have managed the process to designate sec rule 144a unregistered securities as portal securities since 1990. in december 2010, we completed our acquisition of zvm, a provider of webcasting and investor relations communication services for companies in the nordic region. zvm, which is the leading provider of webcasting services in northern europe, will add to the growing range of capabilities and services nasdaq omx offers public and private companies in the u.s. and europe. global index group we are one of the world leading index providers. we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq omx brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. in addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. with the launch of new index families such as the green economy and sharia families, we now have over 1,600 diverse indexes, with 238 launched in 2010. nasdaq omx indexes are the basis for over 2,900 structured products in 27 countries. in 2010, product sponsors launched 24 etfs based on nasdaq omx indexes. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. market technology powering more than 70 markets in over 50 countries, we are the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. technology solutions. the systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide ranging requirements, from smaller african markets to the leading markets in the us, europe and asia. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives on any of these assets. nasdaq omx technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, bolsa de valores de colombia, egypt stock exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, six swiss exchange, singapore exchanges and tokyo commodity exchange. our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues and banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. 13 table of contents systems integration, operation and support. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. by transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. at the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure. advisory services. our advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. we understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of nasdaq omx as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry. surveillance . in august 2010, we completed our acquisition of smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. this acquisition is part of our strategy to diversify our market technology business and enter the broker surveillance and compliance market. we believe that this acquisition will strengthen our position as the leading technology partner to marketplaces worldwide. core technology. technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. at nasdaq omx, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. nasdaq omx next generation technology is capable of handling multi-million messages per second at an average speed of sub-100 microseconds, currently the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world. the foundation for nasdaq omx core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq omx u.s. and european markets. inet is also the main building block of our market technology offering, genium inet. genium inet combines innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers, as well as our own marketplaces. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. an example of the registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, genium inet, secur, click xt and exigo. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for nasdaq omx-developed inventions and processes. we focus on gaining patent protection for the software functionality that we develop in order for us to fully benefit from our research and development investments. we accomplish this through the evaluation of inventions, the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications for inventions deemed worthwhile to pursue, the maintenance of granted patents, the coordination of information within the organization about patents and the monitoring of competitors for possible use of patented information. 14 table of contents competition market services. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in the u.s. against nyse euronext, bats global markets, direct edge, regional exchanges and alternative trading systems, or atss. in europe, our major competitors include nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, the spanish exchanges, six swiss exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as chi-x and bats europe, which are similar to u.s. atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board or otc trading in the u.s. and elsewhere. in bond trading, we compete in europe with alternative marketplaces such as euromts limited. for derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. the competitive significance in europe of these varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and the direct cost of trade execution. cash equity securities trading. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as the number of exchanges increases and less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, through interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. broker-dealer owned systems continued the rapid growth that began in 2009 throughout 2010. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet, pipeline trading and investment technology group posit platform. during 2010, three new exchange competitors to nasdaq omx appeared. in july 2010, direct edge received sec approval to operate its two markets (edga and edgx) as exchanges and in october 2010, bats launched a second exchange (bats-y). during 2010, nasdaq omx also launched its third cash equity exchange, nasdaq omx psx, to provide a third alternative combination of pricing and features. finally, 2010 saw two significant regulatory events that could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape: the sec published a market structure concept release early in 2010 and the may 6 th flash crash accelerated rulemaking intended to prevent repeat of that day extreme price changes. rules concerning halting trading during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high frequency) trading, alternative trading systems such as dark pools, and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape by helping or hurting nasdaq omx or its competitors business models. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid in november 2007. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs (chi-x, turquoise, and bats) based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as markit boat, or boat, also continue to be active. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in europe and are looking to grow their businesses. in the nordics, the burgundy mtf grew modestly in 2010 and plans to expand its business in 2011. these entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do atss in the u.s., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation and pursuit of exchange status. because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their 15 table of contents customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. derivatives. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, or cboe, the international securities exchange, or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex and the boston options exchange, or box. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. nasdaq omx operates two options exchanges with different market structures. nasdaq omx phlx operates a pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with cboe, ise, nyse arca and nyse amex. the nasdaq options market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with nyse arca and box. both bats and the cboe launched new options exchanges in 2010, with bats being somewhat similar to the nasdaq options market. the further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing. mifid does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses cash equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with eurex group, nyse liffe, edx london limited, or edx, and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. as trading in europe evolves under the current review of the original mifid legislation, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. clearing. in both the u.s. and europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all cash equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation borders. some countries, such as sweden, did not have a clearinghouse until 2009. in some countries, such as the u.s., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the central securities depository, or csd. in some, such as germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others, such as the u.k., the clearinghouse, exchange, and csd are separate. furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using ccp services in european clearing than in the u.s. regardless of past practice, competition is beginning to come to the clearing business in response to the european code of conduct in clearing and settlement in europe and initiatives by nasdaq omx in the u.s. at this time, competition in clearing in europe remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as emcf, x-clear and euroccp serving non-national multilateral trading facilities or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges. in the u.s., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the u.s. a viable possibility. should clearing competition become a vibrant reality in the u.s., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution. we believe that the clearing business in both the u.s. and europe would benefit from competition. even as a 22% equity owner of emcf, one of the largest cash equities clearinghouses in europe, we support interoperability of cash equities clearinghouses, which will foster a healthy competition among cash equities clearinghouses in europe. market data services. the market data business in the u.s. includes both consolidated and proprietary data products. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed 16 table of contents stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. in europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. our revenues from the sale of consolidated market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by the nasdaq stock market and other exchanges. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq stock market. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006 and in january 2008, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. in december 2010, we again changed the terms of the program effective january 2011. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products, sometimes at a lower price or free of charge. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently, our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants typically price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. the growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by nasdaq omx and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges efforts to expand their market data offerings. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. on the nasdaq stock market is the nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse amex for listing of smaller companies and the bats and directedge exchanges have announced their intention to compete for listings in the future. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges that are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b&ouml;rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations. 17 table of contents indexes. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the enormous cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including nyse euronext and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. nasdaq omx provides technology to over 70 exchanges and exchange-related businesses worldwide and in 2010 expanded its offering in compliance services by acquiring smarts. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. regulation of u.s. exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. with the registration of the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. with the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange, we acquired additional sro licenses. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, and/or nasdaq omx bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. broker-dealers may also choose other sro memberships, including membership in finra. 18 table of contents all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the sec. nasdaq omx currently operates three cash equities and two options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; the nasdaq omx bx cash equities market pursuant to the nasdaq omx bx sro license; and the nasdaq omx psx cash equities market and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to the nasdaq omx phlx sro license. in addition, nasdaq omx bx regulates the box market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of nasdaq omx bx and box. nasdaq omx does not have an ownership interest in box, and box compensates nasdaq omx bx based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to box. finra provides regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx to finra for further investigation. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq stock market to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx phlx. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, nyse, nyse amex, nyse arca, finra, bats exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, ise and the national stock exchange. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, finra, nyse amex, box, ise, nyse arca, cboe and bats exchange. the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or 19 table of contents expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for both nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of such capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra. the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros, including some of the regulatory services we perform for box. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which we are relieved of regulatory responsibility: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra and nyse regulation covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. 20 table of contents cftc regulation. with the acquisition of phlx, we also acquired its subsidiary, nasdaq omx futures exchange, inc. (formerly the philadelphia board of trade), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act. as a designated contract market, nfx is subject to regulatory oversight by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. nfx currently lists futures contracts on stock indexes, foreign currencies and interest rate swaps. the national futures association, or nfa, provides certain regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. the cftc also regulates idch, a derivatives clearing organization under the commodity exchange act that is wholly owned by idcg. idch clears interest rate swap futures contracts listed by nfx as well as interest rate swaps traded in the otc market. nfa also provides regulatory services to idch. european regulation recent directives from the european union have focused on harmonizing regulation with respect to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. currently, there are proposals on regulation in relation to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions. these are providing opportunities for companies such as ours. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to use our position in the industry to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. there are three surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark. these committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq omx stockholm role as central counterparty in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. 21 table of contents with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks which may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest which may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2010, nasdaq omx had 2,395 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. of the total employees, 1,313 were based in the u.s. and 1,082 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 106 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information, and then click on sec filings. we use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our market data, global index and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and the markets for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european exchanges. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include nyse euronext, the london stock exchange, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the tokyo stock exchange, and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. these exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, market data, listings, regulation, index, and technology services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. our competitors include burgundy mtf in the nordics. in london, chi-x, turquoise and bats mtfs offer pan-european execution services in competition with our nordic exchanges. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark-pools and internalization engines which may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings or data businesses more competitive than ours. in early 2011, the london stock exchange group and the tmx group and nyse euronext and deutsche b&ouml;rse ag announced proposed mergers that may affect our competitive position. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have 23 table of contents also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of market data and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. a decline in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on high frequency trading, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through our pricing. declines in trading volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our market share of trading has declined and may continue to decline. our matched market share in nasdaq-listed securities executed on nasdaq declined from 46.1% in 2007 to 28.6% in 2010 and our combined matched market share in all u.s.-listed securities executed on all of our platforms declined from 29.1% in 2007 to 22.2% in 2010. in addition, as a result of the adoption of mifid, a number of mtfs have launched, thereby significantly increasing competition in europe. as a result, our matched market share in securities listed on our exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic has declined from 100% in 2007 to 75% in 2010. if our total market share in these securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. declines in market share could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. also, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors including general economic conditions, market volatility, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. although access to credit markets has improved recently, a long-term continuation of challenging economic conditions is likely to negatively impact our business. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes and market technology. market volatility such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010 could drive investors away from cash equity markets. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. 24 table of contents the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. market data revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our market data professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies and a decline in market data revenue due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for initial public offerings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital, both of which have been severely tested in recent years. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. system limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, data theft, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. in february 2011, we announced that through our normal security monitoring systems, we detected suspicious files on our u.s. servers. the files were immediately removed and at this point there is no evidence that any customer information was accessed or acquired by third parties. 25 table of contents while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services our otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to adverse financial conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, in the past two years, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis and market volatility, such as that seen with the regulation of short selling and the flash crash on may 6, 2010. during the coming year, it is likely that there will be significant changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. for example, in january 2010, the sec published a concept release covering a wide range of market structure issues, and on may 6, 2010, cash equity markets experienced record volatility, which resulted in accelerated sec rulemaking. both events could result in regulation that could significantly change the competitive landscape. the european parliament has begun a review of mifid that could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as short selling, co-location, high-frequency trading, market halts, the market data business, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec, the sfsa and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. regulatory changes by the sec, the sfsa or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facilities, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. 26 table of contents any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our term loans and our 5.25% senior notes due 2018 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platforms fail to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; 27 table of contents the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 28 table of contents we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, energy-related commodity products and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of the national securities clearing corporation, or nscc. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. in connection with recent acquisitions and share repurchases, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $250 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; 29 table of contents place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2010, goodwill totaled approximately $5.1 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.7 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. goodwill for our three reporting units are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using october 1 st carrying values. we assess potential impairments to goodwill and intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flow. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. however, disruptions to our business, such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment test for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future. for goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. for indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. if we incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future our operating results could be adversely affected. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. our business is subject to extensive regulation. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases 30 table of contents explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and nyse and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec, the nyse and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges or csds. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, switzerland, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold minority stakes in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-u.s. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our european exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our european exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business may be impacted by the adoption and implementation of the dodd-frank act. on july 21, 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. full implementation of the act will require extensive rulemaking by the sec, the cftc, sros and other regulators. in light of the uncertainty of the final implementation of the act, there is a risk that the final regulations could include provisions that could impact our business. the act provides for central clearing of standardized over-the-counter swaps and requires cleared swaps to be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities. while these new requirements may provide new opportunities for us, including the opportunity to expand the business of idcg, our existing offering to clear over-the-counter interest rate swap products, other market participants have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing clearing platforms and offerings. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or that our initiatives in this area will be successful. in addition, market participants may change their behavior in response to the act and the expected regulations. for example, the act prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds may cause some of our major clients to curtail or eliminate their trading operations in 31 table of contents advance of the effective date. to the extent that our existing customers and other market participants reduce the levels or restrict the nature of activity on our exchanges, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. furthermore, if the act or any of the pending regulations are perceived as creating new burdensome legal and regulatory requirements on public companies in the u.s., it may decrease our ability to compete for listings with competitor exchanges in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although our u.s. cash equities and options exchanges outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. we are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. in the u.s., we are subject to oversight by the sec, and our subsidiaries nfx and idch are subject to oversight by the cftc. our subsidiary nocc has applied to register with the cftc and is regulated as a power marketer by the federal energy regulatory commission (for transactions in every state but texas) and the public utility commission of texas (for transactions in texas). in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under the securities, commodities or other laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. our non-u.s. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the european union level. implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. if a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided 32 table of contents materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain losses that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key senior officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our senior officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 33 table of contents damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets, such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of 34 table of contents our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets, that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions 35 table of contents executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona, danish krone, norwegian krone, australian dollar and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, or eps, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we will incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; 36 table of contents additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2010, there were 175,782,683 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 6.1 million options exercisable as of december 31, 2010 at a weighted average exercise price of $13.19. it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amounts of our 2.50% convertible notes in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. however, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. the conversion rate will initially be 18.1386 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $55.13 per share of common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; 37 table of contents require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 91 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 33.9% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. the following discussion of results of operations isolates the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations to better measure the comparability of operating results between periods. operating results excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations are calculated by translating the current year results by the prior period exchange rates. the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 2010 when compared with the same period in 2009: revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased $69 million, or 4.7%, to $1,522 million in 2010, compared with $1,453 million in 2009, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of $52 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to: 45 table of contents an increase in total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $38 million; an increase in access services revenues of $29 million; an increase in total cash equity revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $9 million; an increase in global index group revenues of $8 million; and an increase in global listings services revenues of $6 million, partially offset by; a decrease in broker service revenues of $18 million; a decrease in market data revenues of $13 million; a decrease in other market services revenues of $5 million; and a decrease in market technology revenues of $1 million. operating expenses increased $41 million, or 4.8%, to $891 million in 2010, compared with $850 million in 2009, reflecting an increase in operating expenses of $27 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. the operational increase in operating expenses was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expense of $29 million primarily due to a pre-tax charge of $40 million incurred in january 2010 as a result of the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. loss on divestiture of businesses was $11 million in 2010. this charge was due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro and agora-x during the second quarter of 2010. net income from unconsolidated investees was $2 million in 2010, compared with a net loss of $107 million in 2009. the net loss for 2009 is primarily due to $87 million of impairment charges ($82 million on our nasdaq dubai investment and $5 million on our agora-x investment), as well as a $19 million loss related to the sale of our share capital in orc software ab, or orc. gain on sales of businesses was $12 million in 2009 and was related to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business for a gain of $7 million and the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom for a gain of $5 million. debt conversion expense was $25 million in 2009 and was related to the conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. the $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the then present value of series a convertible preferred stock issued totaling $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. business environment we serve listed companies, market participants and investors by providing high quality cash equity, derivative and commodities markets, thereby facilitating economic growth and corporate entrepreneurship. we also provide market technology to exchanges and markets around the world. in broad terms, our business performance is impacted by a number of drivers including macroeconomic events affecting the risk and return of financial assets, investor sentiment, government and private sector demands for capital, the regulatory environment for capital markets, and changing technology in the financial services industry. our future revenues and net income will continue to be influenced by a number of domestic and international economic trends including: trading volumes, particularly in u.s. and nordic cash equity and derivative securities, which are driven primarily by overall macroeconomic conditions; 46 table of contents the number of companies seeking equity financing, which is affected by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, availability of diverse sources of financing as well as tax and regulatory policies; the emergence of new market participants seeking opportunities in the recovering global economy; the steady optimism of our technology customers about the outlook for capital markets and economic stability; continuing pressure in transaction fee pricing due to intense competition in the u.s. and europe; competition for listings and trading related to pricing, product features and service offerings; regulatory changes imposed upon certain types of instruments, transactions, or capital market participants; and technological advancements and members demand for speed, efficiency, and reliability. currently our business drivers are defined by investors cautious outlook about the pace of global economic recovery, and governments ability to fund their sovereign debt. the lack of confidence in the prospects for growth results in sporadic increases in the level of market volatility and lackluster trading volume. additional impacts on our business drivers include the international enactment and implementation of new legislative and regulatory initiatives, and the continued rapid evolution and deployment of new technology in the financial services industry. the business environment that influenced our financial performance for the full year 2010 may be characterized as follows: a considerable increase in the pace of new equity issuance relative to a historically slow 2009 in the u.s. with 89 ipos on the nasdaq stock market, up from 33 in 2009. ipo activity also increased in the nordics with 11 ipos on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic; matched share volume for all our u.s. markets decreased 16.2% relative to 2009 driven by a significant decline in overall u.s. volume and a modest decline in our market share; a 34.1% increase relative to 2009 in the number of cash equity transactions on our nordic and baltic exchanges driven by increased levels of participant trading as participants increasingly adopt algorithmic trading; a 1.6% increase relative to 2009 in the sek value of cash equity transactions on our nordic and baltic exchanges resulting from increased volume levels and higher 12-month equity valuations; growth of 30.1% experienced by our nordic and baltic exchanges relative to 2009 in the number of traded and cleared equity and fixed-income contracts (excluding edx and eurex) driven by an increase in the number of derivative exchange members and increased market share in competitively listed products; intense competition among u.s. exchanges for both cash equity trading volume and listings, and strong competition between multilateral trading facilities and exchanges in europe for equity trading volume; globalization of exchanges, customers and competitors extending the competitive horizon beyond national markets; and market trends requiring continued investment in technology to meet customers demands for speed, capacity, and reliability as markets adapt to a global financial industry, as increasing numbers of new companies are created, and as emerging countries show ongoing interest in developing their financial markets. 47 table of contents 2011 outlook we launched several strategic initiatives during 2010 which should benefit us during the challenging economic environment anticipated for 2011. for the third year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. our platform continues to stand out as a reliable, flexible, and high capacity system delivering high levels of execution quality and speed under even extremely demanding market conditions. we continued to expand the application of our u.s. inet trading system with the successful launch of a new cash equities trading platform, nasdaq omx psx, in 2010. the nasdaq omx psx model prioritizes trading according to price and order size, thereby offering an exchange alternative to institutional and block traders. the standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform offering strong performance to both existing and new clients and creating additional sales opportunities for both our transactions services and market data businesses. our 2009 experiences with launching inet technology on our u.s. exchanges continued in 2010 with the nasdaq omx psx cash equities market. internationally, we developed and launched genium inet for the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic exchanges. by using nasdaq omx high performance systems in our major exchanges, the flexibility of inet and genium inet technology has been demonstrated in both the u.s. and in europe. the australian stock exchange became our first genium inet customer in late 2010 and we anticipate that the singapore stock exchange will introduce their genium inet based platform during 2011. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2011. these changes will be driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe as legislation created in the aftermath of the financial crisis is implemented and as the industry reacts to those initiatives. we expect that cash equities markets will continue to fragment into additional venues and trading will continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems. conversely, trading in otc derivatives will begin to move onto exchanges and other public execution facilities. our investment in idcg creates an opportunity for entering the clearing business for interest rate swap products. throughout 2010 there were signs of a recovery in the ipo market and we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the return of global economic growth to support further increases in the number of ipos. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital is expected to add to the ipo pipeline in 2011. we continue to leverage the opportunities in market data brought about by the breadth of nasdaq omx data distribution capabilities by offering new data products to our customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers. we believe that the year ahead will be positive for our business drivers and our operations as the global economy slowly recovers. we believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2011. we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments we manage, operate and provide our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. the market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses and our market data business, which are interrelated because the transaction services businesses generate the quote and trade information that we sell to market participants and data distributors. market services also includes our broker services business. 48 table of contents the issuer services segment includes our global listing services and the global index group businesses. the companies listed on the nasdaq stock market, our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north represent a diverse array of industries. this diversity of companies listed on nasdaq omx markets allows us to develop industry-specific and other indexes that we use to develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and index products as part of our global index group. the global listing services business also includes our corporate solutions business. the market technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services. our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. see note 18, segments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. sources of revenues and cost of revenues market services revenues transaction services u.s. cash equity trading u.s. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. we charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in nasdaq-listed and other listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. for the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx psx we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. we record these credits as transaction rebates which are included in cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec in the consolidated balance sheets until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. as we hold the cash received until payment to the sec, we earn interest income on the related cash balances. european cash equity trading we charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. the transaction fee for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic is charged per executed order and as per value traded. u.s. derivative trading and clearing u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded on 49 table of contents nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market are equity options, etf options, index options and currency options. in the u.s., we also operate nfx, which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. similar to u.s. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. see u.s. cash equity trading above for further discussion. through nocc, we engage in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts. revenues are based on notional amounts or volume of power and gas transacted and/or delivered and are recognized upon settlement of the contracts. european derivative trading and clearing european derivative trading and clearing revenues are also variable, based on the volume of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. derivative trading and clearing is conducted on nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen. the principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures, by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for certain otc contracts. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we also offer clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. clearing revenues for resale and repurchase agreements are based on the value and length of the contract and are recognized when cleared. european derivative trading and clearing revenues also include clearing revenues for commodities. nasdaq omx commodities provides access to the world largest power derivatives markets and one of europe largest carbon markets. nasdaq omx commodities offers international power derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. our clearing revenues from trading transactions on nord pool are variable, based on cleared volume, and recognized when contracts are cleared. we also generate clearing revenues for contracts traded on the otc derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared. in addition, european derivatives revenues include annual renewal fees. each january, nasdaq omx commodities members are billed an annual fee which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. access services we generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. the type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. as a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. market data market data revenues are earned from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. 50 table of contents net u.s. tape plans revenues from u.s. tape plans include eligible utp plan revenues which are shared among utp plan participants. under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive securities information processor from the total amount of tape fees collected. after these costs are deducted from the tape fees, we distribute to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. revenues from net u.s. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis. u.s. market data products we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data, as well as select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. u.s. market data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants. european market data products european market data revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic, nasdaq omx baltic and nasdaq omx commodities for four classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. the primary services offered are flexible back-office systems. our services allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. broker services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2009. the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. european listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed 51 table of contents on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north, are directly related to the listed companies market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. global listing services revenues also include fees from corporate solutions. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. revenues primarily include subscription income from shareholder.com and directors desk, fees from globenewswire and revenues from corporate solutions nordic. prior to october 2009, corporate solutions revenues also included commission income from our carpenter moore insurance agency business. in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and recorded a gain of $7 million, which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2009. the sale of our carpenter moore business will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. fee income for services other than placement of insurance coverage is recognized as those services are provided. shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. as part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. directors desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. globenewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. for our insurance agency business, commission income was recognized when coverage became effective, the premium due under the policy was known or could be reasonably estimated, and substantially all required services related to placing the insurance had been provided. broker commission adjustments and commissions on premiums billed directly by underwriters were recognized when such amounts could be reasonably estimated. global index group we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group. revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the u.s. and abroad. we also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. if a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. if a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. asset-based licenses also are generally long-term agreements. customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. these revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement. market technology revenues the market technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services. revenues are derived from the following primary sources: licensing, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. 52 table of contents we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe, of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request revenues include customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solution sold by nasdaq omx after delivery has occurred. change request revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. advisory services revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. broker surveillance revenues are derived from surveillance solutions targeting brokers and regulators throughout the world. broker surveillance revenues are subscription based and are recognized in revenue when earned. 53 table of contents nasdaq omx operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, issuer services, and market technology segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 market services cash equity trading nasdaq securities average daily share volume (in billions) 2.19 2.24 2.28 matched market share executed on nasdaq 28.6 % 33.0 % 43.2 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.9 % 1.4 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 35.5 % 36.6 % 22.6 % total market share (2) 67.1 % 71.0 % 65.8 % nyse securities average daily share volume (in billions) 4.83 5.64 5.06 matched market share executed on nasdaq 13.7 % 15.7 % 22.2 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 3.6 % 1.9 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 31.3 % 32.1 % 19.3 % total market share (2) 48.7 % 49.6 % 41.5 % nyse amex and regional securities average daily share volume (in billions) 1.45 1.89 1.49 matched market share executed on nasdaq 20.7 % 24.4 % 35.1 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 3.1 % 1.4 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility (1) 28.7 % 32.1 % 16.2 % total market share (2) 52.6 % 57.9 % 51.4 % total u.s.-listed equities average daily share volume (in billions) 8.47 9.77 8.83 matched share volume (in billions) 475.0 566.6 665.9 matched market share executed on nasdaq 18.8 % 21.3 % 29.8 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 3.3 % 1.7 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily number of equity trades 284,840 212,465 213,481 average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 3.3 $ 3.1 $ 5.0 derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options average daily volume (in millions) 14.3 13.4 13.0 nasdaq omx phlx matched market share 23.4 % 17.9 % 16.4 % the nasdaq options market matched market share 4.0 % 3.1 % 1.0 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily volume: options, futures and fixed-income contracts 428,523 329,350 418,773 nordic equity option contracts traded on edx (3) 95,374 153,686 finnish option contracts traded on eurex 117,450 77,312 73,870 nasdaq omx commodities clearing turnover: power contracts (twh) (4) 2,090 2,136 409 carbon contracts (1000 tco2) (4) 31,500 45,765 13,261 54 table of contents year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 issuer services initial public offerings: nasdaq 89 33 26 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 11 1 17 new listings: nasdaq (5) 195 131 177 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (6) 25 12 28 number of listed companies: nasdaq (7) 2,778 2,852 3,023 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (8) 780 797 824 market technology order intake (in millions) (9) $ 160 $ 204 $ 229 total order value (in millions) (10) $ 495 $ 417 $ 359 (1) transactions reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility. (2) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility. (3) in december 2009, derivative volume was transferred to nasdaq omx from edx. (4) transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq omx commodities measured by terawatt hours (twh) and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tco2). (5) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (6) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets, nasdaq omx first north. (7) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (8) represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets, nasdaq omx first north, at period end. (9) total contract value of orders signed. (10) represents total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue, as discussed in note 7, deferred revenue to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. segment operating results of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our market services segment, 22.6% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our market services segment, 22.7% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our 2008 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our market services segment, 23.5% was from our issuer services segment, 8.2% was from our market technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues. 55 table of contents the following table shows our total revenues, cost of revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees by segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) market services $ 2,700 $ 2,934 $ 3,176 (8.0 )% (7.6 )% cost of revenues (1,675 ) (1,958 ) (2,190 ) (14.5 )% (10.6 )% market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 1,025 976 986 5.0 % (1.0 )% issuer services 344 330 343 4.2 % (3.8 )% market technology 152 145 119 4.8 % 21.8 % other 1 2 12 (50.0 )% (83.3 )% total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,522 $ 1,453 $ 1,460 4.7 % (0.5 )% 56 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) transaction services cash equity trading revenues: u.s. cash equity trading (1) $ 1,600 $ 2,010 $ 2,412 (20.4 )% (16.7 )% cost of revenues: transaction rebates (1,094 ) (1,394 ) (1,718 ) (21.5 )% (18.9 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (341 ) (467 ) (444 ) (27.0 )% 5.2 % total u.s. cash equity cost of revenues (1,435 ) (1,861 ) (2,162 ) (22.9 )% (13.9 )% u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 165 149 250 10.7 % (40.4 )% european cash equity trading 90 95 116 (5.3 )% (18.1 )% total cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 255 244 366 4.5 % (33.3 )% derivative trading and clearing revenues: u.s. derivative trading and clearing (2) 390 232 93 68.1 % # cost of revenues: transaction rebates (218 ) (81 ) (26 ) # # brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (22 ) (16 ) (2 ) 37.5 % # total u.s. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues (240 ) (97 ) (28 ) # # u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 150 135 65 11.1 % # european derivative trading and clearing revenues 115 87 64 32.2 % 35.9 % total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 265 222 129 19.4 % 72.1 % access services revenues 173 144 112 20.1 % 28.6 % total transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 693 610 607 13.6 % 0.5 % market data net u.s. tape plans 117 128 146 (8.6 )% (12.3 )% u.s. market data products 126 119 107 5.9 % 11.2 % european market data products 70 78 77 (10.3 )% 1.3 % total market data revenues 313 325 330 (3.7 )% (1.5 )% broker services 15 32 41 (53.1 )% (22.0 )% other market services 4 9 8 (55.6 )% 12.5 % total market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,025 $ 976 $ 986 5.0 % (1.0 )% 57 table of contents # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $252 million in 2010, $314 million in 2009 and $207 million in 2008. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. (2) includes section 31 fees of $19 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. transaction services transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increases were primarily due to increases in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. partially offsetting the increase in 2009 was a decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. u.s. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to modified rates and lower tiered rebate payouts, partially offset by a significant decline in industry volumes and a decline in our matched market share. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system and the average net fee per share matched on nasdaq trading system. u.s. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system due to a significant decline in industry volumes, a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenues charged by us to our customers and a decline in our matched market share. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system, partially offset by higher section 31 revenues due to higher rates charged by us to customers beginning in the second quarter of 2009. as discussed above, we record section 31 fees as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of the shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $252 million in 2010, $314 million in 2009 and $207 million in 2008. the decrease in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to lower section 31 fee rates and lower dollar value traded on nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems. the increase in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to higher section 31 fee rates in 2009. for the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx psx we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system due to a significant decline in industry volumes, lower tiered rebate payouts and a decline in our matched market share. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a lower number of shares matched on nasdaq trading system, partially offset by an increase in the amount of the rebate offered to liquidity providers. 58 table of contents brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees, lower routing costs, and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry volumes. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher section 31 fee rates, partially offset by lower routing costs, a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq and lower fees incurred from nscc. european cash equity trading revenues european cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic exchanges and neuro (for periods prior to closing our neuro business). european cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to revised trading fees introduced in the first quarter of 2010, partially offset by an increase in trading activity and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the value traded per day due to lower average market capitalization of stocks traded, partially offset by the inclusion of european cash equity trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. in addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted european cash equity trading revenues by $11 million in 2009. u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to increases in volumes traded and market share, partially offset by lower average net fees for traded contracts. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx derivative trading revenues of $196 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx derivative trading revenues totaling $78 million for 2008. in addition, an increase in market share contributed to these increases in 2009. similar to u.s. cash equity trading, section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $19 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $2 million 2008. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to a revised fee structure implemented in the first quarter of 2010 along with higher volumes traded and an increase in market share. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx transaction rebates of $61 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx transaction rebates totaling $17 million in 2008. the increase in transaction rebates in 2009 was also due to an increase in market share as discussed above. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $11 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx brokerage, clearance and exchange fees totaling $2 million in 2008. european derivative trading and clearing revenues european derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on nasdaq omx stockholm, as well as clearing revenues from resale and repurchase agreements on nasdaq omx stockholm, trading and clearing revenues from derivative products on nasdaq 59 table of contents omx copenhagen and revenues from nasdaq omx commodities. european derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher trading and clearing revenues for energy contracts, options and futures contracts and fixed income products due to the transfer of derivative volume from edx to nasdaq omx in the fourth quarter of 2009. also contributing to the increase in 2010 was transaction activity associated with clearing resale and repurchase agreements which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2010 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the growth in cleared energy products and the transfer of derivative volume from edx to nasdaq omx, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2009. european derivative trading and clearing revenues include: trading and clearing revenues for options and futures contracts of $49 million in 2010 compared with $33 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008; trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products of $41 million in 2010 compared with $35 million in 2009 and $6 million for the two months included in 2008. beginning in may 2010, trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products include revenues from nord pool; trading and clearing revenues from fixed income products of $18 million in 2010 compared with $14 million in both 2009 and 2008; and other revenues and fees of $7 million in 2010 compared with $5 million in 2009 and $3 million in 2008. during 2009, we began providing trading and clearing operations to a dutch trading platform called the order machine, which primarily contributed to the increase in other revenues and fees in 2010 and 2009. access services revenues access services revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to increased demand for co-location and network connectivity services and a revised fee structure for access services. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to: (i) revised fees for access services, (ii) increases in customer demand for network connectivity, (iii) continued expansion of our co-location services and (iv) the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues of $15 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of nasdaq omx phlx access services revenues totaling $10 million in 2008. market data market data revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to decreases in net u.s. tape plans and european market data products revenues, partially offset by an increase in u.s. market data products revenues. the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. cash equities, as calculated under the sec-mandated market data revenue quoting and trading formula, and reductions in the size of the tape plan revenue pools mainly driven by declines in subscriber populations. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to growth of new products such as bx totalview, options data feeds and mutual fund products, partially offset by discontinued products. the decrease in european market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in subscriber populations and discontinued products, partially offset by modified fees for market data products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. 60 table of contents the decrease in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in net u.s. tape plans revenues, partially offset by increases in u.s. market data products revenues and the inclusion of european market data products revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. cash equities and a reduction in the size of the tape plans revenue pools. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2009 was primarily due to growth of products such as the nasdaq global index data service, which was launched in the first quarter of 2009, nasdaq last sale, which was launched in the second quarter of 2008, and other proprietary data products. broker services broker services revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. these decreases were primarily due to the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse in november 2009. the decrease in 2009 was also due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. issuer services the following table shows revenues from our issuer services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) global listing services: annual renewal fees $ 113 $ 117 $ 125 (3.4 )% (6.4 )% listing of additional shares fees 39 37 40 5.4 % (7.5 )% initial listing fees 18 20 22 (10.0 )% (9.1 )% total u.s. listing fees 170 174 187 (2.3 )% (7.0 )% european listing fees 49 45 48 8.9 % (6.3 )% corporate solutions 78 72 64 8.3 % 12.5 % total global listing services 297 291 299 2.1 % (2.7 )% global index group 47 39 44 20.5 % (11.4 )% total issuer services revenues $ 344 $ 330 $ 343 4.2 % (3.8 )% global listing services u.s. listing services revenues annual renewal fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on the nasdaq stock market. the number of companies listed on the nasdaq stock market on january 1, 2010 was 2,852, compared to 3,023 on january 1, 2009, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. the decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 302 delistings from the nasdaq stock market in 2009, partially offset by 131 new listings in 2009. annual renewal fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on the nasdaq stock market. the number of companies listed on the nasdaq stock market on january 1, 2009 was 3,023, compared to 3,135 on january 1, 2008, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. the decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 289 delistings from the nasdaq stock market in 2008, partially offset by 177 new listings in 2008. 61 table of contents the number of listed companies as of january 1, 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes separately listed etfs. annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over a 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared to 2008. listing of additional shares fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of four years. therefore, revenues for each year will vary depending on the change in the total shares outstanding for companies listed on the nasdaq stock market in each of the preceding four years. initial listing fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. initial listing fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of six years. therefore, revenues for each year will vary depending on the number of new listings, which include ipos, in each of the preceding six years. new listings were 195 during 2010 compared with 131 during 2009 and 177 during 2008. the increase in new listings during 2010 was primarily due to a stronger ipo market and will impact future revenues as these fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated service period of six years. european listing services revenues european listing services revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in the market capitalization of nordic issuers, partially offset by a decrease in the number of listed companies from 797 as of december 31, 2009 to 780 as of december 31, 2010. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in the market capitalization of nordic issuers as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 824 as of december 31, 2008 to 797 as of december 31, 2009. in addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted european listing services revenues by $4 million in 2009. partially offsetting the decline in 2009 was an increase in revenues due to the inclusion of european listing services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. european listing services revenues are recognized ratably over a 12-month period. corporate solutions revenues corporate solutions revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to expanding customer utilization of shareholder.com, directors desk and globenewswire, as well as revenues from bloom partners. in addition, the inclusion of corporate solutions nordic for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. partially offsetting these increases in 2010 and 2009 was a decrease in carpenter moore revenues primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business in october 2009. global index group revenues global index group revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and other financial products. the global index group has also seen growth in the number of products licensed and an increase in volume for licensed derivative products in 2010. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and a decrease in licensed derivatives and futures volumes, partially offset by futures price increases and the inclusion of a full twelve-month period of european global index revenues compared with ten months in 2008. 62 table of contents market technology the following table shows the revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) market technology: license, support and facility management revenues $ 104 $ 106 $ 77 (1.9 )% 37.7 % delivery project revenues 17 20 13 (15.0 )% 53.8 % change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues 31 19 29 63.2 % (34.5 )% total market technology revenues $ 152 $ 145 $ 119 4.8 % 21.8 % market technology revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to an increase in change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues, partially offset by decreases in delivery project revenues and license, support and facility management revenues. license, support and facility management revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to a decrease in facility management revenues due to the loss of facility management customers. partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in support revenues resulting from our acquisition of smarts in august 2010, clients entering the support stage of their contracts and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million in 2010. delivery project revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million in 2010. change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to an increase in broker surveillance revenues resulting from our acquisition of smarts in august 2010, as well as higher change request activity during 2010. market technology revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of market technology revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008, as well as increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009. partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million in 2009. as of december 31, 2010, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $495 million. market technology deferred revenue of $146 million, which is included in this amount, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 7, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2011 $ 146 2012 117 2013 80 2014 59 2015 44 2016 and thereafter 49 total $ 495 63 table of contents expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 416 $ 412 $ 401 1.0 % 2.7 % marketing and advertising 20 15 19 33.3 % (21.1 )% depreciation and amortization 103 104 93 (1.0 )% 11.8 % professional and contract services 78 76 72 2.6 % 5.6 % computer operations and data communications 58 58 54 7.4 % occupancy 88 81 65 8.6 % 24.6 % regulatory 35 32 29 9.4 % 10.3 % merger and strategic initiatives 4 17 25 (76.5 )% (32.0 )% general, administrative and other 89 55 62 61.8 % (11.3 )% total operating expenses $ 891 $ 850 $ 820 4.8 % 3.7 % total operating expenses increased $41 million in 2010 compared with 2009 and $30 million in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $27 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. the increase in operating expenses of $27 million in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expense for charges incurred in connection with the january 2010 repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, partially offset by asset retirements in the third quarter of 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. the increase in 2009 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. the increase in operating expenses of $63 million in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of omx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. compensation and benefits expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million and higher compensation expenses reflecting stronger financial performance, partially offset by a decrease in salary expense primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and our broker services operations in the united kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2009. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of omx compensation and benefits expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 as well as increased compensation and stock based compensation as a result of other recent acquisitions. partially offsetting the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2009 was a decrease in incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 2,395 employees at december 31, 2010 from 2,235 employees at december 31, 2009. headcount at december 31, 2008 was 2,506 employees. the increase in headcount in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to our recent acquisitions of smarts and ften. the decrease in headcount in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to a reduction in staffing needs driven by successful integration efforts associated with our business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, as well as the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore business and our broker services operations in the united kingdom as noted above. marketing and advertising expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to production and media costs of a television advertisement campaign in 2010, as well as increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in media production and advertising. 64 table of contents depreciation and amortization expense decreased slightly in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to the full amortization of a technology intangible asset in january 2010, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency of $2 million. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 and the inclusion of omx depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. professional and contract services expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign currency. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to expenses for consulting work performed on system upgrades, as well as the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx professional and contract services expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. partially offsetting these increases were foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $3 million in 2009, and lower costs due to cost savings programs that were put in place during 2009. computer operations and data communications expense remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in hardware maintenance, software leases and network costs to facilitate our recent acquisitions, as well as the inclusion of omx computer operations and data communications expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. occupancy expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in co-location rent related to the build-out of our data centers, a $5 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2010 due to our decision to vacate space we currently lease in philadelphia and san francisco as well as london and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. partially offsetting these increases in 2010 was a $8 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2009 on the space we occupy in stockholm, sweden, discussed below. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to a charge incurred as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in stockholm before its term and our decision to vacate part of the space we occupy in stockholm, which resulted in recording an estimated sublease loss reserve of $8 million. in addition, an increase in co-location rent and the inclusion of nasdaq omx phlx occupancy expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. partially offsetting this increase was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $2 million for 2009. regulatory expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to outsourcing the regulation of nasdaq omx phlx to finra in 2010. the increase in 2009 was primarily due to new regulatory fees from finra and an expansion of regulatory services to new markets. finra provides regulatory services to the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and the markets operated and regulated by nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $4 million in 2010 compared with $17 million for 2009 and $25 million in 2008. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2010 included legal and consulting costs related to our recent acquisitions of smarts and ften and costs related to strategic initiatives. merger expenses for 2009 and 2008 were directly attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, but did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments. the costs primarily included consulting and legal costs related to our integration of omx ab and phlx. merger expenses in 2009 also included sales and use tax exposures which existed on previous acquisitions. general, administrative and other expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to charges incurred related to the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009. in january 2010, we recorded a pre-tax charge 65 table of contents of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 of $28 million, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million. see senior unsecured notes, credit facility and repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in addition, the increase was due to the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million in 2009 on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance, discussed below. partially offsetting these increases in 2010 were asset retirements of $10 million in the third quarter of 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. the decrease in general, administrative and other expense in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $6 million, the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million in 2009 on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance and other costs, and an improvement in collections of bad debts in 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. see early extinguishment of debt, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the early extinguishment of debt. non-operating income and expenses the following table presents our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 (in millions) interest income $ 9 $ 13 $ 35 (30.8 )% (62.9 )% interest expense (102 ) (102 ) (97 ) 5.2 % net interest expense (93 ) (89 ) (62 ) 4.5 % 43.5 % dividend and investment income (3 ) 2 8 # (75.0 )% loss on divesture of businesses (11 ) # # income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net 2 (107 ) 27 # # loss on sale of investment security (5 ) # # gain on sales of businesses 12 # # debt conversion expense (25 ) # # asset impairment charges (42 ) # # gain (loss) on foreign currency contracts, net (58 ) # # total non-operating income and (expenses) $ (105 ) $ (212 ) $ (127 ) (50.5 )% 66.9 % # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. interest income interest income decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to lower average interest rates earned on our short term investments included in cash and cash equivalents, as well as on financial investments, at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to lower interest rates of approximately 2% on our investments in 2009 compared with 2008. interest expense interest expense for 2010 was $102 million, and was comprised of $81 million in interest expense, $14 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes and $7 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense. interest expense remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009 as decreases in 66 table of contents interest expense due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2010 resulting from principal amortization payments made in 2009 and 2010 and repurchases of our debt during 2009 were offset by increases in interest expense due to higher average interest rates on our debt obligations. interest expense for 2009 was $102 million, and was comprised of $67 million in interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes, $11 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense and $11 million in other related fees. interest expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a full twelve-month period of interest expense in 2009 on our outstanding debt obligations related to the omx ab business combination compared with ten months of interest expense in 2008 and additional interest expense due to our increased outstanding debt obligations as a result of the acquisitions of phlx and certain businesses of nord pool that were completed in the second half of 2008. dividend and investment income dividend and investment income decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio as a result of increased rates. the decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the dividend per share received from our available-for-sale investment in the oslo b&oslash;rs exchange, or oslo, as well as a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio classified as trading investment securities. lower fair values were generally related to higher interest rates in 2009 on this portfolio. loss on divestiture of businesses the loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million in 2010 was due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro ($6 million) and agora-x ($5 million) in the second quarter of 2010. income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net net income from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in 2010 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. the net loss in 2009 of $107 million was primarily due to impairment charges related to our investments in nasdaq dubai and agora-x and the sale of our orc shares. see below for further discussion. the net income in 2008 of $27 million primarily related to the nasdaq dubai transaction in february 2008. we contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to nasdaq dubai in exchange for a 33 1 /3% equity stake in nasdaq dubai. one of the intangible assets contributed was the nasdaq trade name, which had a zero carrying value on nasdaq books and records prior to the transfer. as a result, we recognized a $26 million gain for the difference between nasdaq carrying value and the fair value of the contributed asset on this non-monetary exchange. impairment of nasdaq dubai in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. the realignment was completed in may 2010 and at that time, nasdaq dubai became a wholly-owned subsidiary of dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. we received a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for our equity interest in nasdaq dubai. our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with borse dubai and nasdaq dubai remain unchanged. in connection with the realignment of the ownership structure discussed above, a third-party specialist determined the fair value of nasdaq dubai. based on this valuation, we determined our carrying value of nasdaq dubai was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in an $82 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for the year ended december 31, 2009. 67 table of contents at the time of the realignment in may 2010, we recorded a pre-tax, non cash loss of $1 million in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the consolidated statements of income, which was based on the difference between the price of dfm common stock multiplied by the number of shares of dfm acquired and the carrying value of our investment in nasdaq dubai at the time of the exchange. nasdaq omx originally contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to nasdaq dubai in exchange for a 33 1 /3% equity stake in nasdaq dubai in february 2008. at that time, nasdaq omx valued its total nasdaq dubai investment at $128 million. prior to the impairment, the investment had a carrying value of $120 million. impairment of agora-x in december 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our investment in agora-x from 20% to 85%. in evaluating the fair value of the total investment, it was determined that our carrying value of agora-x was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $5 million. sale of orc shares during the second quarter of 2009, we sold our shares in orc, representing 25.25% of the share capital of orc, to a group of swedish and other international investors for $54 million in cash. as a result of the sale, we recognized a $19 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. loss on sale of investment security in connection with our business combination with omx ab, we acquired a long-term available-for-sale investment in oslo. during the second quarter of 2009, we made a strategic decision to sell this investment, demonstrating our intent to no longer hold this investment, and recorded a $5 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. in 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to this investment, which was included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income. see asset impairment charges below for further discussion. gain on sales of businesses in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business. certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business were sold to woodruff-sawyer &amp; co. and the eastern region insurance brokerage business was sold to aon risk services companies, inc. in connection with these sales, we recorded a gain of $7 million. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million. debt conversion expense in the third quarter of 2009, we recorded debt conversion expense of $25 million related to an inducement for conversion of most of the 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. the $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of the series a convertible preferred stock issued of $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. see conversion of 3.75% convertible notes, of note 8, debt obligations, and preferred stock, of note 12, stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 68 table of contents asset impairment charges in 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to our long-term available-for-sale investment security in oslo. see financial investments, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. we also recorded a non-cash impairment loss of $7 million in 2008 from the write-down of finite-lived intangibles assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business. see note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gain (loss) on foreign currency contracts, net the loss on foreign currency contracts of $58 million in 2008 primarily related to a forward contract entered into to hedge the nok cash payment for the nord pool transaction ($72 million) and our market technology forward currency contracts ($13 million), partially offset by gains on forward contracts entered into to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with omx ab ($27 million). see note 15, derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. income taxes nasdaq omx income tax provision was $137 million in 2010 compared with $128 million in 2009 and $198 million in 2008. the overall effective tax rate was 26.0% in 2010, 32.7% in 2009 and 38.6% in 2008. the lower effective tax rate in 2010 when compared to 2009 was primarily due to the restructuring of certain nasdaq omx subsidiaries. these transactions resulted in one-time reductions in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate and a one-time tax deduction for a capital loss. the higher effective tax rate in 2009 was primarily due to losses on the sale of our equity method investment and an available-for-sale investment security, which are not deductible for tax purposes in the local jurisdiction where these investments were held. the lower effective tax rate in 2009 when compared with 2008 was primarily due to reductions in valuation allowances associated with certain deferred tax assets, and reductions in current year taxes in jurisdictions outside the u.s. offsetting these decreases is the debt conversion expense, which is not deductible for u.s. tax purposes. the higher effective tax rate in 2008 was primarily due to the other-than-temporary impairment loss of $35 million on a long-term available-for-sale investment security, which is not deductible for tax purposes. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. nasdaq omx and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-u.s. income tax returns. federal income tax returns for the years 2007 through 2009 are subject to examination by the internal revenue service. several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2000 through 2008 and we are subject to examination for 2009. non-u.s. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for years 2003 through 2009. in august 2010 we paid the state of california $2 million with respect to audits for the years 1996 through 1998 and the years 2000 through 2006. since this amount was included in our unrecognized tax 69 table of contents benefits as of december 31, 2009, such payment does not affect our 2010 effective tax rate. the outcome of these audits did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. we anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2010 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. the final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. we anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. in the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the finnish tax authority in which such authority challenges certain interest expense deductions claimed by nasdaq omx in finland for the years 2009 and 2008. nasdaq omx tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the finnish tax authority. the appeal also demands certain penalties be paid with regards to such tax return filing position. if the finnish tax authority prevails in their challenge, additional tax and penalties for such years would total approximately $10 million. we expect the finnish tax authority to agree with our position once its review is completed and, as such, it is unlikely nasdsaq omx will be assessed any additional tax and penalties. through december 31, 2010, we have recorded the tax benefits associated with such filing position. in june 2009, nasdaq omx filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. the application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on january 1, 2009. in june 2010, we received a favorable response from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings in which all members of the council agreed that such interest expense is deductible for swedish tax purposes. the swedish tax agency has recently appealed such ruling to the swedish supreme administrative court. we expect the swedish supreme administrative court to agree with the ruling from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. for the year ended december 31, 2010, we recorded a tax benefit of $18 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, related to this matter. since january 1, 2009, we have recorded a tax benefit of $37 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, related to this matter. net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $6 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $3 million in 2009 and net income of $1 million in 2008. the 2010 and 2009 amounts primarily reflect losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. the 2008 noncontrolling interests amount primarily represents 1.2% of omx income for the period february 27, 2008 to august 27, 2008 (the effective date of the purchase of the remaining minority omx ab shares). liquidity and capital resources while 2010 was still a challenging economic environment, global market and economic conditions appear to have rebounded from adverse levels experienced during 2009, and this recovery has reinvigorated financial markets. many lenders and institutional investors have re-established their lending practices and are now able to provide increased funding to borrowers, which has resulted in improved access to credit and positive liquidity growth. our cost and availability of funding remain healthy and we expect to be positively impacted by continued improvements in the credit markets as we expect to be able to obtain improved terms should we seek either new debt financing or refinancing of our existing obligations. in january 2010, nasdaq omx refinanced its existing credit facilities by issuing $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, or the notes, and entering into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. the new credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), a $350 million funded tranche a term loan, or the term loan a, and a $350 million funded tranche x term loan, or the term loan x and, together with the term loan a, the term loans. the notes were issued at a discount. as a result of the discount, the proceeds received from the issuance were less than the aggregate principal amounts. nasdaq omx applied the net proceeds of $996 million from the 70 table of contents notes, the $700 million funded term loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and related fees. as a result, nasdaq omx terminated the associated credit agreement. in december 2010, we entered into a $400 million senior unsecured bridge facility, of which proceeds of $370 million were utilized to partially finance the purchase of 22,781,000 shares of our outstanding common stock from borse dubai. see share repurchase from borse dubai, of note 12, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase from borse dubai. in december 2010, we also issued $370 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes, or the 2018 notes. the 2018 notes were issued at a discount and pay interest semiannually at a rate of 5.25% per annum until january 16, 2018. as a result of the discount, the proceeds received from the issuance were less than the aggregate principal amount. nasdaq omx applied the net proceeds of $367 million from the 2018 notes and cash on hand of $3 million to repay all amounts outstanding under our bridge facility and terminated the bridge facility as of december 31, 2010. excluding the bridge facility, which was repaid with the net proceeds from the 2018 notes, net proceeds from debt obligations were $2.1 billion in 2010. see senior unsecured notes, credit facility and repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, bridge facility, and 5.25% senior unsecured notes, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. in addition to these cash sources, we have a $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our credit facility to borrow funds. in the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, and interest payments on our debt obligations. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $279 million at december 31, 2010, compared with $516 million at december 31, 2009, a decrease of $237 million. as of december 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents of $315 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt and other long-term liabilities. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. 71 table of contents the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our cash and cash equivalents and cash flows, indebtedness, contractual obligations and contingent commitments and derivative clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements on our liquidity and capital resources. cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy and alternative investment choices. restricted cash, which was $60 million as of december 31, 2010 and $30 million as of december 31, 2009, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at nasdaq omx nordic. in addition, as of december 31, 2010, restricted cash also includes cash held in customer margin accounts at idcg and nocc. non-current restricted cash was $105 million at december 31, 2010 and $80 million at december 31, 2009, an increase of $25 million. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, non-current restricted cash includes a deposit in the guaranty fund of idcg of $80 million. in addition, as of december 31, 2010, non-current restricted cash includes $25 million segregated for nocc to improve its liquidity position and is not available for general use. these amounts are classified as non-current restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. the following tables summarize our cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows: december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 percentage change (in millions) cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 315 $ 594 (47.0 )% (1) cash and cash equivalents exclude restricted cash which is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements. year ended december 31, percentage change 2010 2009 (in millions) cash provided by operating activities $ 440 $ 582 (24.4 )% cash used in investing activities (118 ) (53 ) # cash used in financing activities (595 ) (336 ) 77.1 % effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6 ) 27 # # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents decreased $279 million from december 31, 2009 primarily due to cash used in financing activities and investing activities, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities. 72 table of contents changes in cash flows cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2010: net income of $389 million, plus: non-cash items of $172 million comprised primarily of $103 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $37 million for charges related to debt refinancing (including $28 million for the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and $9 million in costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge), $33 million of share-based compensation expense, $14 million related to accretion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes, $11 million for loss on divestiture of businesses and asset retirements and impairment charges of $6 million, partially offset by deferred taxes, net of $35 million. partially offset by an: increase in other assets of $79 million primarily related to a prepaid expense for a data center lease of $32 million, an increase in non-current restricted cash related to $25 million segregated for nocc to improve its liquidity position and an increase of $30 million in current restricted cash which relates to cash held on customer margin accounts at idcg and nocc, as well as increases related to regulatory requirements within nasdaq omx nordic. decrease in section 31 fees payable to sec of $55 million primarily due to the timing of payments, which are made twice a year in september and march, as well as lower fee rates. the following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2009: net income of $263 million, plus: non-cash items of $271 million comprised primarily of loss from unconsolidated investees, net of $107 million, depreciation and amortization of $104 million, share-based compensation of $35 million, debt conversion expense of $25 million, accretion of 2.50% convertible senior notes of $13 million and asset retirements and impairment charges of $13 million, partially offset by gain on sales of businesses of $12 million and deferred taxes, net of $10 million. decrease in other assets of $130 million primarily due to a decrease in restricted cash as a result of the release of nasdaq omx commodities clearing capital due to changes in our clearing capital model. increase in section 31 fees payable to sec of $88 million due to higher section 31 fees as a result of rate increases. decrease in receivables, net of $33 million primarily due to decreases in our transaction services trade receivables reflecting increased tape rebates, which are netted against our tape revenue billings. partially offset by a: decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125 million primarily due to lower rebates as a result of decreased trading activity, as well as the wind-down of activities at carpenter moore and our broker services operations in the united kingdom, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009. 73 table of contents decrease in accrued personnel costs of $41 million primarily due to a decrease in our incentive compensation accrual reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a reduction in the number of employees in 2009. decrease in other current liabilities of $37 million primarily due to decreases in accrued taxes as a result of payments made. we expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, share-based compensation and the timing and amount of other payments that we make. cash used in investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2010 is primarily due to purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. in 2009, cash used in investing activities primarily related to cash used in connection with the purchase of trading securities, as well as purchases of property and equipment. partially offsetting cash used in 2009 was cash received from sales and redemptions of trading securities and our available-for-sale investment in oslo, as well as cash received from the sale of our 25.25% equity method investment in orc. cash used in financing activities cash used in financing activities in 2010 primarily consisted of the repayment of debt obligations of $2.2 billion consisting of the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 of $1.7 billion, repayment of our bridge facility of $370 million, repayment of $130 million on our term loans, including optional payments totaling $60 million made in the second and third quarters of 2010, and a $16 million payment related to the payoff of our subordinated debt obligation assumed in the acquisition of nord pool derivatives clearing and consulting subsidiaries. we also utilized $797 million of cash in connection with our share repurchase program, which includes our stock repurchase from borse dubai. these decreases were partially offset by the net proceeds from debt obligations of $2.4 billion, as discussed above. see indebtedness below for further discussion of our debt obligations. see share repurchase from borse dubai, and share repurchase program, of note 12, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. cash used in financing activities for 2009 consisted of $225 million in principal payments made on our senior secured term loan facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and a $71 million payment to repay in full the vendor note issued to the previous owners of nord pool in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses of nord pool. in addition, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs, and made a $4 million payment on our other credit facilities in 2009. we also made a $9 million payment in connection with an inducement for the conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes. for further discussion of the $9 million inducement payment, see note 8, debt obligations, and preferred stock, of note 12, stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. 74 table of contents indebtedness the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 (in millions) 3.75% convertible notes (net of discount) (1) october 2012 $ $ $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility (2) january 2013 570 2.50% convertible senior notes august 2013 388 374 4.00% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2015 398 5.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2018 367 5.55% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2020 598 6.25% subordinated debt assumed from the acquisition of nord pool derivatives clearing and consulting subsidiaries repaid may 2010 18 $2,000 million senior secured term loan facility repaid january 2010 1,700 total debt obligations 2,321 2,092 less current portion (140 ) (225 ) total long-term debt obligations $ 2,181 $ 1,867 (1) as of december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, approximately $0.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% convertible notes remained outstanding. (2) in addition to our scheduled $70 million quarterly payments, we made optional payments totaling $60 million of principal on our term loans during the second and third quarters of 2010. senior unsecured notes, credit facility and repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 as discussed above and in note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements, in january 2010 nasdaq omx issued $1 billion of notes and entered into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. the credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) and $700 million of funded term loans. nasdaq omx applied the net proceeds from the notes, the $700 million funded term loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and related fees. as a result, nasdaq omx terminated the associated credit agreement. the senior unsecured credit facility contains financial and operating covenants. financial covenants include an interest expense coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. the interest expense coverage ratio requires nasdaq omx to maintain a minimum ratio of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined by the credit agreement) to cash interest expense (as defined by the credit agreement) of 4.0 to 1.0. the maximum leverage ratio of debt (excluding up to $100 million of short term borrowings in connection with regulatory requirements) to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined by the credit agreement), is initially set at 3.5 to 1.0, stepping down to 3.25 to 1.0 beginning january 2012. operating covenants include limitations on nasdaq omx ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, enter into affiliate transactions and pay dividends. the credit facility also contains customary affirmative covenants, including access to financial statements, notice of defaults and certain other material events, maintenance of business and insurance, and events of default, including cross-defaults to our material indebtedness. nasdaq omx is permitted to repay borrowings under the credit facility at any time in whole or in part, without penalty. we also are required to repay loans outstanding under the credit facility with net cash proceeds 75 table of contents from sales of property and assets of nasdaq omx and its subsidiaries (excluding inventory sales and other sales in the ordinary course of business) and casualty and condemnation proceeds, in each case subject to specified exceptions and thresholds. bridge facility as discussed above and in note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements, in december 2010, nasdaq omx entered into a $400 million senior unsecured bridge facility of which proceeds of $370 million were utilized to partially finance the purchase of our stock from borse dubai. we applied the net proceeds from the issuance of our 2018 notes, discussed below, and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under the bridge facility and terminated the bridge facility as of december 31, 2010. 5.25% senior unsecured notes in december 2010, nasdaq omx issued $370 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2018, at a discount. the net proceeds were $367 million. the 2018 notes pay interest semiannually at a rate of 5.25% per annum until january 16, 2018.we applied the net proceeds from the 2018 notes of $367 million and cash on hand of $3 million to repay all amounts outstanding under our bridge facility, as discussed above, as well as related fees. other credit facilities in addition to the $250 million revolving credit commitment discussed above, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona and u.s. dollar, totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2009, these credit facilities totaled $417 million ($185 million in available liquidity and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. debt covenants at december 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. debt obligations by contract maturity see contractual obligations and contingent commitments below for our debt obligations by contract maturity, which includes both principal and interest obligations. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. derivative clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements derivative clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for nasdaq omx stockholm, nasdaq omx commodities and idcg. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2010, we were required to maintain regulatory capital of $273 million which is comprised of: $3 million of restricted cash; $80 million of non-current restricted cash; and $190 million primarily in swedish government debt securities. these securities are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2010. 76 table of contents in addition, we have available credit facilities of $244 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2010, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $8.1 million, or $7.8 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2010, nasdaq options services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $5.4 million, or $5.1 million in excess of the minimum amount required. other capital requirements nasdaq options services also is required to maintain a $2.0 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with occ. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with gaap, we have also provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect historical operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance and management decisions made during the reporting period by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx for the periods presented below is calculated by adding net income attributable to nasdaq omx and various non-recurring, infrequent or other charges that are not routine operating expenses, and their related income tax effects. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our historical and normal operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2010 primarily related to the following: (i) debt related charges associated with the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, (ii) loss on divestiture of businesses due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro and agora-x in the second quarter of 2010, (iii) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete 77 table of contents technology, (iv) workforce reduction costs, (v) sublease loss reserve charge recorded on the space we occupy in philadelphia, san francisco and london due to our decision to vacate this space, (vi) merger and strategic initiatives costs, primarily legal and consulting, related to our recent acquisitions of smarts and ften, as well as costs related to other strategic initiatives, (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (viii) non-recurring tax items, net primarily due to the permanent tax effect of the restructuring of certain nasdaq omx subsidiaries. this resulted in a one-time reduction in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate and a one-time tax deduction for a capital loss. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily related to the following: (i) debt conversion expense related to an inducement for conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock, (ii) gain on early extinguishment of a portion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes, net of costs, (iii) impairment charges related to our investments in nasdaq dubai and agora-x, as well as the sale of our orc shares, (iv) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete technology, (v) loss on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in oslo, (vi) gain on the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and a gain on the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom, (vii) workforce reduction costs, (viii) sublease loss reserve charge recorded as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in stockholm before its term and our decision to vacate part of this space, (ix) merger and strategic initiatives costs, directly attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, which did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments, (x) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, (xi) non-recurring tax items, net primarily due to reductions in 2008 u.s. tax liabilities based on recent tax return filings and reductions in u.s. tax liabilities for years which are no longer subject to examination, and (xii) other. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2008 primarily related to the following: (i) asset impairment charges related to a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge on our long-term available-for-sale investment security in oslo and a non-cash impairment loss from the write-down of finite-lived intangible assets, primarily related to our carpenter moore insurance agency business, (ii) net loss on foreign currency contracts primarily related to our foreign currency forward contracts used to economically hedge our exposure related to our business combination with omx ab and the nord pool transaction, (iii) a non-recurring gain on the contribution of the nasdaq trade name in the transaction with nasdaq dubai, (iv) workforce reduction costs, (v) merger and strategic initiatives costs, directly attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, which did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments, (vi) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (vii) other. 78 table of contents the following table represents reconciliations between gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 year ended december 31, 2008 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts) gaap net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to nasdaq omx $ 395 $ 1.91 $ 266 $ 1.25 $ 314 $ 1.55 non-gaap adjustments: debt repayment 40 0.20 debt conversion expense 25 0.12 gain on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (0.02 ) impairment of nasdaq dubai 82 0.38 impairment of agora-x 5 0.02 sale of orc shares 19 0.09 loss on divestiture of businesses 11 0.05 asset retirements 2 0.01 13 0.06 loss on sale of investment security 5 0.02 gain on sale of businesses (12 ) (0.06 ) asset impairment charges 42 0.21 net loss on foreign currency contracts 58 0.28 gain on our transaction with nasdaq dubai (26 ) (0.13 ) workforce reductions 9 0.04 15 0.07 2 0.01 sublease reserves 5 0.03 8 0.04 merger and strategic initiatives 4 0.02 17 0.08 25 0.12 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (28 ) (0.14 ) (47 ) (0.21 ) (17 ) (0.08 ) non-recurring tax items, net (32 ) (0.15 ) (8 ) (0.04 ) other 5 0.02 5 0.02 2 0.01 total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 16 0.08 123 0.57 86 0.42 non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to nasdaq omx $ 411 $ 1.99 $ 389 $ 1.82 $ 400 $ 1.97 denominator for diluted earnings per share 206,514,655 214,537,907 204,514,862 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. the foreign currency revaluation has no associated tax impact. 79 table of contents contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq omx has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2010: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (see note 8, debt obligations ) (1) $ 2,947 $ 222 $ 1,026 $ 530 $ 1,169 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 515 82 137 108 188 other obligations (3) 25 3 22 total $ 3,487 $ 307 $ 1,185 $ 638 $ 1,357 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. a weighted-average interest rate of 2.41% at december 31, 2010 was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our term loans. all other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2010. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) in connection with our acquisitions of ften and smarts, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and other closing conditions. at december 31, 2010, these agreements provide for future payments of $25 million. off-balance sheet arrangements collateral received for clearing operations, guarantees issued and credit facilities available collateral received for clearing operations through our clearing operations in the derivatives markets with nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, as well as riskless principal trading at nocc and the resale and repurchase market with nasdaq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we also act as the counterparty for certain trades on otc derivative contracts. the derivatives are not used by us for the purpose of trading on our own behalf and the resale and repurchase agreements are not used by us for financing purposes. the structure and operations of nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm differ from other clearinghouses. see derivative positions, at fair value, of note 14, fair value of financial investments, for further discussion. as a legal counterparty of each transaction, we bear the counterparty risk between the purchaser and seller in the contract. the counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the financial supervisory authority of the application country, which requires us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. we require our customers and clearing members to pledge collateral and meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. total customer pledged collateral with nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm was $8.7 billion at december 31, 2010 and $6.1 billion at december 31, 2009. this pledged collateral is held by a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx in the event of default. since these funds are not held by nasdaq omx commodities or nasdaq omx stockholm and they are not available for our use, we do not receive any interest income on these funds. 80 table of contents we also require market participants at idcg and nocc to meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations and to provide collateral to cover the daily margin call. customer pledged cash collateral held by idcg and nocc, which was $15 million at december 31, 2010, is included in restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belongs to idcg and nocc. clearing member pledged cash collateral, included in idcg guaranty fund, was $8 million at december 31, 2010. this cash is included in non-current restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belongs to idcg. through our clearing operations in the resale and repurchase markets with nasdaq omx stockholm, pledged collateral which is transferred through nasdaq omx stockholm at initiation of the bilateral contract between the two clearing member counterparties, primarily consists of swedish government debt securities. in addition, market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. in the event that one of the members cannot fulfill its obligation to deliver or receive the underlying security at the agreed upon price, nasdaq omx stockholm is required to buy or sell the security in the open market to fulfill its obligation. in order to protect itself against a price movement in the value of the underlying security, or price risk, nasdaq omx stockholm requires all members to provide additional margin as needed, which is valued on a daily basis and is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx stockholm in the event of default. guarantees issued and credit facilities available in addition to the collateral pledged by market participants discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. at december 31, 2010, financial guarantees issued to us totaled $5 million. credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona and u.s. dollar, totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2009, these facilities totaled $417 million ($185 million in available liquidity and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. leases we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. other guarantees we have provided other guarantees as of december 31, 2010 of $18 million, primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. in addition, for certain market technology contracts, we have performance guarantees of $6 million related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. these guarantees totaled $35 million at december 31, 2009. we have also provided a $25 million guarantee to our wholly-owned subsidiary, nocc, to cover losses associated with customer defaults, net of any collateral posted against such losses. 81 table of contents we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for the above guarantees. brokerage activities nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouses, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. to mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. however, we believe that the potential for nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as a result of our operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, equity risk and credit risk. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the following table summarizes our significant exposure to interest rate risk on our financial assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2010: financial assets financial liabilities (1) negative impact of a 100 bp adverse shift in interest rate (2) (in millions) floating rate positions (3) $ 480 $ 570 $ 1 fixed rate positions ( 4 ) 220 1,798 2 total $ 700 $ 2,368 $ 3 (1) represents total contractual debt obligations. (2) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (3) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (4) financial assets primarily consist of swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.60 years. we are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate positions, which totaled $480 million at december 31, 2010. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2010 positions, each 1.0% change in interest rates on our net floating rate positions would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $1 million in total as reflected in the table above. 82 table of contents we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial investments, which totaled $220 million at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2010, these fixed rate positions have an average outstanding maturity or reset date falling in more than one year. a shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve would in aggregate impact the fair value of these positions by approximately $4 million. the average duration of the portfolio was 1.60 years. the net effect of such a yield curve shift, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $2 million. foreign currency exchange rate risk as an international company, we are subject to currency translation risk. for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 33.9% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro and norwegian krone. the increase in the percentage of our operating income in currencies other than the u.s. dollar was primarily due to an increase in u.s. dollar operating expenses. in january 2010, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 of $28 million, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million. our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2010 0.1391 1.3272 0.1657 0.1782 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 22.3 % 3.4 % 3.0 % 3.0 % 2.2 % percentage of operating income 16.6 % 5.6 % 4.0 % 4.4 % (4.2 )% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (34 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (4 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (10 ) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2009 0.1315 1.3941 0.1598 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 21.0 % 4.3 % 3.1 % 6.1 % percentage of operating income 11.3 % 6.4 % 3.5 % impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (30 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) $ (9 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (7 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. 83 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2008, our primary exposures to foreign currencies were to the swedish krona, euro and danish krone. the average foreign currency exchange rate to the u.s. dollar in 2008 was 0.1516 for the swedish krona, 1.4712 for the euro, and 0.1963 for the danish krone. of our total consolidated operating income for the year ended december 31, 2008, 2% was denominated in swedish krona, 19% in euros, and 2% in danish krones. equity risk our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our reported results as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to this equity risk as of december 31, 2010 is presented by foreign currency in the following table: net investment impact on consolidated equity of a 10% decrease in foreign currency (millions of dollars) euro $ 211 $ 21 norwegian krone 143 14 australian dollar 90 9 swedish krona 88 9 danish krone 75 8 credit risk we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are cleared by nasdaq execution services, as a member of nscc. system trades in derivative contracts executed in the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is also liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making 84 table of contents payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc and occ rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc and occ. historically, neither nasdaq execution services nor nasdaq options services has incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, as well as riskless principal trading at nocc and the resale and repurchase market with nasdaq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. see collateral received for clearing operations, guarantees issued and credit facilities available, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. on an ongoing basis we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparty creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. the following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. management estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. for a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. revenue recognition issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. market technology revenues the market technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services. 85 table of contents revenues are derived from the following primary sources: licensing, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vsoe of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized in revenue when earned. reserve for bad debts the reserve for bad debts is maintained at a level that management believes to be sufficient to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the reserve is increased by the provision for bad debts which is charged against operating results and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the amount charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a continuous assessment of the collectability of each account, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with the particular customer. in circumstances where a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations is known (i.e., bankruptcy filings), we record a specific provision for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. due to changing economic, business and market conditions, we review the reserve for bad debts monthly and make changes to the reserve through the provision for bad debts as appropriate. if circumstances change (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to pay), our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. 86 table of contents goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2010, goodwill totaled $5.1 billion and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $993 million. the determination of the value of such goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. goodwill for our three reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using october 1 st carrying values. we assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. for goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. for indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are based on the operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. however, disruptions to our business such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform an impairment test for goodwill for some or all of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future. as of december 31, 2010, there were no reporting units deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. also, we do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets at risk of failing our impairment test. there have been no significant events since the timing of our impairment tests that would have triggered additional impairment testing. no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2010, 2009 or 2008. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. in 2009, we recorded losses of $87 million due to impairment charges related to nasdaq dubai and agora-x. these charges were included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the consolidated statements of income. see note 5, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of finite-lived intangible assets of $7 million primarily related to our insurance agency business, which was part of corporate solutions within our issuer services segment. this 87 table of contents charge was included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income. see note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. no other impairments of long-lived assets were recorded in 2010, 2009 or 2008. amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 3 10 years customer relationships: 10 30 years other: 4 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 3, acquisitions and strategic initiatives, and note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities 88 table of contents would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. pension and post-retirement benefits pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. we assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. in evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. see note 10, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. actuarial assumptions are based upon management best estimates and judgment. the expected rate of return on plan assets for our u.s. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. the long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. while we consider the pension plans recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return. share-based compensation the accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance service units, or psus. prior to october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock awards and after october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock units. we estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the black-scholes valuation model. assumptions used in the black-scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. the risk free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. our computation of expected volatility is based on a combination of historical and market-based implied volatility. our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends. before our credit facilities were in place, it was not our policy to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. see note 11, share-based compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. we capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software. 89 table of contents under our market technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. foreign currency translation foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate. recently adopted accounting pronouncements asc topic 605.25 in october 2009, the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, issued authoritative guidance on fasb accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 605.25, revenue recognition multiple-element arrangements. this guidance modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple-elements, such as product, software, services or support, to a customer at different times as part of a single revenue generating transaction. this standard provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. the standard also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. this accounting guidance was effective for us on january 1, 2011, but allowed for early adoption as of the first quarter of 2010 or through a retrospective application to all revenue arrangements for all periods presented in the financial statements. we adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2010. the adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 820 in january 2010, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to asc topic 820, fair value measurements and disclosures. the amended guidance requires new disclosures as follows: amounts related to transfers in and out of levels 1 and 2 shall be disclosed separately and the reasons for the transfers shall be described. in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3), a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis. the guidance also provides amendments that clarify existing disclosures related to the following: reporting fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities. providing disclosure surrounding the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both level 2 and level 3 fair value measurements. 90 table of contents this accounting guidance was effective for us beginning on january 1, 2010, except for the disclosure requirements surrounding the reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurements, which were effective for us on january 1, 2011. since this guidance only requires additional disclosure, it did not and will not affect our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 855 in february 2010, the fasb issued amended guidance on subsequent events. under this amended guidance, entities that file with the sec are no longer required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued or revised financial statements. this amended guidance was effective immediately and we adopted the new requirements as of march 31, 2010. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2010 2nd qtr 2010 3rd qtr 2010 4th qtr 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 771 $ 886 $ 758 $ 783 cost of revenues (411 ) (496 ) (386 ) (383 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 360 390 372 400 total operating expenses 248 211 207 225 operating income 112 179 165 175 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 61 $ 96 $ 101 $ 137 basic earnings per share $ 0.29 $ 0.46 $ 0.51 $ 0.70 diluted earnings per share $ 0.28 $ 0.46 $ 0.50 $ 0.69 1st qtr 2009 2nd qtr 2009 3rd qtr 2009 4th qtr 2009 total revenues $ 895 $ 889 $ 810 $ 817 cost of revenues (526 ) (522 ) (461 ) (448 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 369 367 349 369 total operating expenses 203 208 218 220 operating income 166 159 131 149 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 94 $ 69 $ 60 $ 43 basic earnings per share $ 0.47 $ 0.34 $ 0.30 $ 0.20 diluted earnings per share $ 0.44 $ 0.33 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 22 risk factors in this form 10-k. iii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2012 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; the cost and availability of liquidity; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading and clearing volume, market share or listed companies; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2011, the nasdaq stock market was home to 2,680 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $4.4 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, two options markets, a futures market and a derivatives clearinghouse. we also engage in riskless principal trading of over-the-counter, or otc, power and gas contracts. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic, and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. collectively, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. through nasdaq omx first north, our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies. as of december 31, 2011, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, together with nasdaq omx first north, were home to 776 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $0.9 trillion. we also operate nasdaq omx armenia. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities operates the world largest power derivatives exchange, one of europe largest carbon exchanges and together with nord pool spot, n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai, and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange 2 table of contents operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers more than 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. our genium inet technology platforms, based on proven inet technology that we originally acquired in the acquisition of inet ecn in 2005, provides technology to customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. also in 2008, we expanded our u.s. market services business through the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, and the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx. the acquisition of phlx, renamed nasdaq omx phlx llc, expanded our presence in the derivatives markets, and we currently operate two separate options markets, nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market. we used the bsx license to create a second u.s. cash equities market, called nasdaq omx bx, which was launched in january 2009 and in 2010, we launched a third u.s. cash equities market utilizing the phlx license called nasdaq omx psx. most recently, we expanded our market services offerings with the acquisition in 2010 of ften, inc., or ften, a leading provider of real-time risk management, or rtrm, solutions for the financial securities market. we also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. in 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of nord pool asa, or nord pool. as a result of this acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of nord pool. also in 2010, through our subsidiary nasdaq omx commodities clearing company, or nocc, we purchased the assets of north american energy credit and clearing corp., expanding our presence in the otc energy commodity markets. together with nord pool spot, nasdaq omx commodities also launched n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts, in 2010. in august 2010, we acquired smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. this acquisition allowed our market technology business to enter the surveillance and compliance market. in recent years, we have expanded our corporate solutions business within our issuer services segment, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. most recently, in december 2010, we acquired zoomvision mamato, or zvm, a company that provides live webcasting services primarily for investor relations professionals and, in october 2011, we acquired glide technologies limited, or glide technologies, a london-based service provider specializing in corporate communications and reputation management solutions. competitive strengths premier global exchange company. we are a premier global exchange company that operates the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our exchanges had an average daily trading volume of 8.4 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $15.4 trillion. in addition, across our markets, we had 3,456 listings representing over 40 countries as of december 31, 2011, including many of the world largest companies. our wholly-owned subsidiary the nasdaq stock market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the u.s. leader in global exchange technology. we believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. as the world first electronic stock market, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 40 years. our inet platform processes trades at sub-millisecond transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. in addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at ten times the average daily volume allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. furthermore, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in 3 table of contents over 50 countries worldwide, including china (hong kong), japan, singapore, australia and the u.s. our genium inet offering, based on proven inet technology, provides technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. we believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms. diversified operations and products. we have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. in addition, our recent acquisitions, investments and strategic initiatives have significantly diversified our product offerings, particularly in the derivatives trading and clearing, commodities, corporate solutions and surveillance technology businesses. proven and disciplined management team. we have a proven and disciplined management team led by robert greifeld, our chief executive officer and president, that has substantial financial services industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. we believe the nasdaq omx management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities. commitment to regulatory integrity. as a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. nasdaq omx is always committed to working with regulators, exchanges and market participants to ensure transparent trading and a fair and orderly market for the benefit of investors. in some instances, nasdaq omx has entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. in addition to operating real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring, nasdaq also maintains enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. we are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the nasdaq omx brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets. products and services we operate in three segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. of our 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,690 million, 67.4% was from our market services segment, 21.8% was from our issuer services segment and 10.8% was from our market technology segment. of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our market services segment, 22.6% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our market services segment, 22.7% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. see note 18, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, which include access services, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. 4 table of contents u.s. transaction services in the u.s., we offer trading in cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs on the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx futures exchange, or nfx, and engage in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts through nocc. our transaction-based platforms in the u.s. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. cash equities trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 18.1% of all u.s. cash equities volume for 2011. we also operate two additional u.s. cash equities markets, called nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx. with these markets, we offer a second and third quote within the u.s. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. as with the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are run on our inet trading system, providing customers additional fast and efficient cash equity securities markets using familiar technology. in accessing these markets, our customers can leverage existing infrastructure, reducing incremental costs when connecting. nasdaq omx psx is the first and only cash equities exchange that operates a pro rata price/size priority model, in contrast to a price/time priority model. in other words, members can get to the front of the queue by virtue of their relative size in the nasdaq omx psx market as opposed to being the fastest to the market. in doing so, nasdaq omx psx emphasizes size over speed, providing additional flexibility to our customers in choosing the best model for their orders. in 2011, nasdaq omx bx matched an average of approximately 2.1% and nasdaq omx psx matched an average of approximately 1.0% of all u.s. cash equities volume. our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platforms: provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer); provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross and ipo cross; and provide anonymity to market participants (i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity), which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. trade reporting. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, nyse amex and other exchanges. 5 table of contents through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally and is submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf charges market participants for locked-in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. u.s. derivative trading and clearing. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx phlx for the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. as of december 31, 2011, nasdaq omx phlx, which operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market, was the largest options market in the u.s. during the year ended december 31, 2011, nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market had an average combined market share of approximately 27.7% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 23.1% at nasdaq omx phlx and approximately 4.6% at the nasdaq options market. together, the combined market share of 27.7% represented the largest share of the u.s. equity options market and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors and algorithmic (high-frequency) trading firms, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often prefer to trade on the floor. in the u.s., we also operate nfx, a designated contract market regulated by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc. nfx offers trading of futures contracts on foreign currencies and gold, which clear at the options clearing corporation, or occ. through international derivatives clearinghouse, or idch, a division of our majority-owned subsidiary international derivatives clearing group, or idcg, we bring a centrally-cleared solution to the largest segment of the otc derivatives marketplace, specifically interest rate derivatives. idch acts as the central counterparty, or ccp, for clearing interest rate swap products, which are also regulated by the cftc. idch utilizes nasdaq omx matching, risk, and clearing technology to clear and settle interest rate derivative products. nasdaq omx also engages in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts through our subsidiary nocc. european transaction services nordics. nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. the exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds, trading and clearing services for derivatives, and clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic market data. trading is offered in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products. nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen also offer trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. nasdaq omx trading offering also includes cash equities listed in norway and norwegian derivatives products. the offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all nordic cash equity products on one platform. nasdaq omx has been the second largest market for trading in norwegian stocks since 2009. 6 table of contents most of our cash equity trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic are centrally cleared by the european multilateral clearing facility n.v., or emcf, a leading european clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake. in september 2010, nasdaq omx launched a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. as a result of an agreement between the swedish money market council and nasdaq omx, a large portion of the swedish interbank resale and repurchase agreement market is cleared through nasdaq omx stockholm. baltics. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). as of december 31, 2011, nasdaq omx owns nasdaq omx tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq omx vilnius and nasdaq omx riga. in addition, nasdaq omx tallinn owns the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq omx riga owns the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq omx helsinki and nasdaq omx vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in lithuania. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, nasdaq omx offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. commodities trading and clearing. nasdaq omx commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives and carbon products. nasdaq omx commodities offering includes the world largest power derivatives exchange and one of europe largest carbon exchanges. nasdaq omx commodities has 390 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. nasdaq omx commodities offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. nasdaq omx commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the ccp. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities, together with nord pool spot, operates n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. access services we provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. the financial information exchange product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. market participants may also access our systems using qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, or ctci, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. firms also may use former inet protocols, such as ouch and rash, to access our single trading platform. we also earn revenues from connectivity to various market data feeds. as an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, our system 7 table of contents offers the nasdaq workstation, an internet-browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. finally, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. access services revenues also include revenues from ften, which we acquired in december 2010. ften is a leading provider of rtrm solutions for the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, ften provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. market data we earn market data revenues from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. net u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are participants in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive securities information processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. u.s. market data products. our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 2,000 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx markets. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to 8 table of contents non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer totalview enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq basic, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information; nasdaq last sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals; nasdaq market replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for nasdaq, nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities at any point in time; nasdaq omx datastore, which is designed to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content; mutual fund quotation service, a service for over 26,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds. in 2011, this service was completely revamped with a new front-end website; mutual fund dissemination service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds; global index dissemination service, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; russelltick, which is a data feed that consolidates the distribution of the russell family of indexes; top of phlx options, which is a top-price-level data feed directly from the nasdaq omx phlx options market; matchview, a direct data feed that provides a view of the prevailing best bid offer of other exchanges; global index watch, which provides index weights and components, including advanced notification of corporate actions, as well as real-time, daily and historical index values for nasdaq omx indexes; nasdaq data-on-demand, a service that gives customers instant access to historical level 1 information; and global access, a service that uses nasdaq omx expertise to perform services for clients, such as client on-site reviews. in december 2011, we acquired the business of rapidata llc, or rapidata, a leading provider of machine-readable economic news to trading firms and financial institutions. with this acquisition, we will deliver u.s. government and other economic news directly from the source to customers interested in receiving information in an electronic feed. european market data products. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, offer european market data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for four classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and 9 table of contents trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. significant european market data products include: nordic equity totalview, which provides full market insight into the order book, news and analysis data for all nordic cash equities. the product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators; nordic derivative level 2, which provides listing details, trade information, derived information and order book information with the five best levels of bid and ask prices with the respective total quantity; and nordic fixed income level 2, which provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. revenues are based on a fixed basic fee for back-office brokerage services, such as administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group approximately 3,500 companies representing approximately $5.3 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2011. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. in addition, through our corporate solutions business, we offer companies access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, maximize board efficiency and facilitate corporate governance. 10 table of contents global listing services our global listing services business includes our u.s. listings, european listings and corporate solutions businesses. u.s. listings. companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2011, a total of 2,680 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,460 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 750 on the nasdaq global market and 470 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2011, the nasdaq stock market attracted 151 new listings. included in these listings were 78 ipos, almost 51% of the total u.s. ipos in 2011. the new listings were comprised of the following: total new listings on the nasdaq stock market 151 switches from nyse/nyse amex 11 ipos 78 upgrades from otc 35 etfs, structured products and other listings 27 in 2011, the following nyse-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing approximately $41.6 billion in market capitalization: fifth street finance corp., frontier communications corporation, icahn enterprises l.p., magnetek, inc., slm corporation, viacom inc. and the wendy company. in the fourth quarter of 2011, we also announced that texas instruments incorporated, representing approximately $33 billion in market capitalization, would switch to the nasdaq stock market on the first trading day in 2012. a total of three companies switched from nyse amex and one company switched from nyse arca to the nasdaq stock market in 2011. european listings. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2011, a total of 776 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. measured in terms of the market capitalization of listed companies, as of december 31, 2011, nasdaq omx nordic was the third largest marketplace in europe for it companies, the largest marketplace in the world for the paper industry, the third largest marketplace in the world for apparel retail companies and third largest marketplace in the world for the industrial machinery industry. our european listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments. customers issue securities in the forms of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds and fixed-income related products. in 2011, a total of 34 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. 11 table of contents corporate solutions. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to customers, including companies listed on our exchanges. through our corporate solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. we provide corporate solutions in the following key areas of focus: investor relations . we provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. market monitoring . we offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance. board practice . we offer management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness. global visibility. we provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our marketsite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies. webcasting. we offer webcasting and investor relations communication services for companies in the nordic region through our subsidiary zvm, a leading provider of webcasting services in northern europe. corporate communications and reputation management. through our acquisition of glide technologies in october 2011, we offer corporate communications and reputation management solutions. this acquisition allows us to offer a fully-integrated workflow solution for investor relations and public relations professionals. global index group we are one of the world leading index providers. we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq omx brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. in addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. in total, the global index group now offers over 2,600 diverse indexes, with more than 1,000 launched in 2011. at the end of 2011, nasdaq omx indexes were the basis for over 5,500 structured products in 24 countries. in 2011, product sponsors launched 11 etfs based on nasdaq omx indexes. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. during 2011, we launched the nasdaq us all market index family consisting of more than 900 market capitalization-weighted, float-adjusted indexes, including the flagship nasdaq us all market index, which covers more than 4,000 companies. this index family is based on a transparent, rules-based methodology specifically developed for institutions to use as a benchmark for the performance of the u.s. equity market. market technology powering more than 70 markets in over 50 countries, we are the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. 12 table of contents technology solutions. the systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. nasdaq omx technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, bolsa de valores de colombia, egypt stock exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, six swiss exchange, singapore exchanges, tokyo commodity exchange, osaka securities exchange and sbi japannext. our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. systems integration, operation and support. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. by transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. at the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure. advisory services. our advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. we understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of nasdaq omx as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry. surveillance solutions . since our acquisition of smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers, we have offered broker surveillance and compliance services to our customers. core technology. technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. at nasdaq omx, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. nasdaq omx next generation technology is capable of handling multi-million messages per second at an average speed of sub-100 microseconds, currently one of the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world. the foundation for nasdaq omx core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq omx u.s. and european markets. inet is also the main building block of our market technology offering, genium inet. genium inet combines innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers, as well as our own marketplaces. 13 table of contents intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. examples of registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, genium inet, secur, click xt and exigo. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. competition market services. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in the u.s. against nyse euronext, bats global markets, direct edge, regional exchanges and atss. in europe, our major competitors include nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, the spanish exchanges, six swiss exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as chi-x and bats europe, which are similar to u.s. atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board, or otc trading, in the u.s. and elsewhere. in bond trading, we compete in europe with alternative marketplaces such as euromts limited. for derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. the competitive significance in europe of these varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and the direct cost of trade execution. cash equity securities trading. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as the number of exchanges increases and less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, through interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. in 2011, broker-dealer owned systems continued the rapid growth that began in 2009. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading 14 table of contents systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet and investment technology group posit platform. during 2010, three new exchange competitors to nasdaq omx appeared. in july 2010, direct edge received sec approval to operate its two markets, edga and edgx, as exchanges and in october 2010, bats launched a second exchange, bats-y. during 2010, nasdaq omx also launched its third cash equity exchange, nasdaq omx psx, to provide a third alternative combination of pricing and features. no new u.s. exchanges were launched or received approval in 2011. however, nasdaq omx continues to face fierce competition from all trading venues for market share. regulatory events also could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape. in february 2011, the sec implemented a new short sale restriction that triggers when a security declines 10% from its previous close. in august 2011, the sec expanded its existing single stock trading pause to include all regulation nms securities. these regulations stem from the 2010 sec concept release on market structure issues, as well as the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash. any potential rules concerning halting trading during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape by helping or hurting nasdaq omx or its competitors business models. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid in november 2007. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs (chi-x, turquoise, and bats) based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as markit boat, also continue to be active. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in europe and are looking to grow their businesses. in the nordics, the burgundy mtf grew modestly in 2010 but contracted slightly in 2011. these entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do atss in the u.s., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation and pursuit of exchange status. because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. derivatives. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, or cboe, the international securities exchange, or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex and the boston options exchange, or box. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. nasdaq omx operates two options exchanges with different market structures. nasdaq omx phlx operates a pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with cboe, ise, nyse arca and nyse amex. the nasdaq options market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with nyse arca and box. both bats and the cboe launched new options exchanges in 2010, with bats being somewhat similar to the nasdaq options market. the further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing. mifid does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses cash equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with 15 table of contents eurex group, or eurex, nyse liffe, edx london limited, or edx, and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. as trading in europe evolves under the current review of the original mifid legislation, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. clearing. in both the u.s. and europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all cash equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation borders. some countries, such as sweden, did not have a clearinghouse until 2009. in some countries, such as the u.s., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the central securities depository. in some, such as germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others, such as the u.k., the clearinghouse, exchange, and central securities depository are separate. furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using ccp services in european clearing than in the u.s. at this time, competition in clearing in europe remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as emcf, x-clear and euroccp serving non-national multilateral trading facilities or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges. however, competition is altering the clearing business in europe in response to the european code of conduct in clearing and settlement. even as a 22% equity owner of emcf, one of the largest cash equities clearinghouses in europe, we support interoperability of cash equities clearinghouses, which will foster a healthy competition among cash equities clearinghouses in europe. in the u.s., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the u.s. a viable possibility. should clearing competition become a vibrant reality in the u.s., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution. market data services. the market data business in the u.s. includes both consolidated and proprietary data products. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. in europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. our revenues from the sale of consolidated market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by the nasdaq stock market and other exchanges. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq stock market. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006 and in january 2008, we changed the terms of the program and established a 16 table of contents new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. in december 2010, we again changed the terms of the program which were effective january 2011. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products, sometimes at a lower price or free of charge. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently, our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants typically price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. the growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by nasdaq omx and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges efforts to expand their market data offerings. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. is the nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse amex for listing of smaller companies. in early 2012, bats announced its first primary listings, and directedge has announced its intention to compete for listings in the future. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges that are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b&ouml;rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations. indexes. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the enormous cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including nyse euronext and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. nasdaq omx provides technology to over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories worldwide and provides compliance services through its subsidiary smarts. 17 table of contents regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. regulation of u.s. exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. with the registration of the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. with the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange and the boston stock exchange, we acquired additional sro licenses. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, and/or nasdaq omx bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. broker-dealers may also choose other sro memberships, including membership in finra. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec 18 table of contents action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the sec. nasdaq omx currently operates three cash equities and two options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; the nasdaq omx bx cash equities market pursuant to the nasdaq omx bx sro license; and the nasdaq omx psx cash equities market and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to the nasdaq omx phlx sro license. in addition, nasdaq omx bx regulates the box market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of nasdaq omx bx and box. nasdaq omx does not have an ownership interest in box, and box compensates nasdaq omx bx based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to box. under the terms of the regulatory services agreement, nasdaq omx bx services for the box market will terminate for trades occurring after the earlier to occur of box registration as a national securities exchange, whereupon box will become its own sro, or may 31, 2012. nasdaq omx bx will continue to provide regulatory services for trades occurring prior to the termination date until all regulatory matters related to these trades have been resolved. finra provides regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx to finra for further investigation. broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx phlx. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, bats-y exchange, bats-z exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, edga exchange, edgx exchange, finra, national stock exchange, nyse, nyse amex and nyse arca. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, bats-z exchange, box, cboe, c2 options exchange, finra, ise, nfa, nyse amex and nyse arca. the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for both nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services. 19 table of contents as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of such capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros, including some of the regulatory services we perform for box. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which we are relieved of regulatory responsibility: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. cftc regulation. with the acquisition of phlx, we also acquired its subsidiary, nfx (formerly the philadelphia board of trade), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act. as a designated contract market, nfx is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. nfx currently lists futures contracts on foreign currencies and gold. the national futures association, or nfa, provides certain regulatory services to nfx pursuant to a regulatory services agreement. the cftc also regulates idch, a derivatives clearing organization under the commodity exchange act that is wholly owned by idcg. idch clears interest rate swap contracts that are traded in the otc market or will be traded on swap execution facilities. nfa also provides regulatory services to idch. 20 table of contents energy commodity regulation. our subsidiary nocc is regulated as a power marketer by the federal energy regulatory commission (for transactions in every state but texas) and the public utility commission of texas (for transactions in texas). european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. currently, there are new regulatory proposals relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to use our position in the industry to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges. there are three surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark. these committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq omx stockholm role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528, or ssma, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct 21 table of contents information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks which may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest which may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2011, nasdaq omx had 2,433 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. of the total employees, 1,132 were based in the u.s. and 1,301 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 103 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then click on financial information, and then click on sec filings. we use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our market data, global index and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and the markets for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the united states have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european exchanges. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include nyse euronext, the london stock exchange, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the tokyo stock exchange, and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. these exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, market data, listings, regulation, index, and technology services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. our competitors include burgundy mtf in the nordics. in london, two mtfs operated by bats (chi-x and bats) and the turquoise mtf operated by the lse offer pan-european execution services in competition with our nordic exchanges. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark-pools and internalization engines which may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings or data businesses more competitive than ours. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of market data and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 23 table of contents economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. although access to credit markets has improved recently in the u.s., a long-term continuation of challenging economic conditions, or a worsening situation in europe, is likely to negatively impact our business. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes and market technology. market volatility such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010 or during the macroeconomic uncertainty of august 2011 could drive investors away from cash equity markets. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. market data revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our market data professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies and a decline in market data revenue due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a decline in trading and clearing volume will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through our pricing. declines in trading and clearing volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our market share of trading has declined and may continue to decline. our matched market share in nasdaq-listed securities executed on nasdaq declined from 46.1% in 2007 to 27.7% in 2011 and our combined matched market share in all u.s.-listed securities executed on all of our platforms declined from 29.1% in 2007 to 21.2% in 2011. in addition, as a result of the adoption of mifid, a number of mtfs have launched, thereby significantly increasing competition in europe. as a result, our matched market share in securities listed on our exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic has declined from 100% in 2007 to 71.9% in 2011. if our total market share in these securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 24 table of contents since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for initial public offerings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital, both of which have been severely tested in recent years. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. in february 2011, we announced that, through our normal security monitoring systems, we detected suspicious files on our u.s. servers. the files were immediately removed and at this point there is no evidence that any customer information was accessed or acquired by third parties. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. 25 table of contents while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to adverse financial conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis and market volatility. on july 21, 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. full implementation of this law will require extensive rulemaking by the sec, the cftc, sros and other regulators. in light of the uncertainty of the final implementation of this law, there is a risk that the final regulations could include provisions that could impact our business. in addition, market participants may change their behavior in response to this law and the expected regulations. in february 2011, the sec implemented a new short sale restriction that triggers when a security declines 10% from its previous close. in august 2011, the sec expanded its existing single stock trading pause to include all regulation nms securities. these regulations stem from the 2010 sec concept release on market structure issues, as well as the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash. any potential rules concerning trading halts during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape and have a material impact on our business. during the coming year, it is likely that there will be additional changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. the european parliament has begun a review of mifid that could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as short selling, co-location, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, market halts, the market data business, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec, the sfsa and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. regulatory changes by the sec, the sfsa or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets. we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facilities, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 26 table of contents in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and our 5.25% senior notes due 2018 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. if our platforms fail to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. in addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; 27 table of contents the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets, such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. 28 table of contents we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, energy-related commodity products and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. in connection with recent acquisitions and share repurchases in 2010, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2011 was approximately $2.1 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $524 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2011, goodwill totaled approximately $5.1 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.6 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets for impairment by applying a fair value based test by 29 table of contents analyzing historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. however, disruptions to our business, such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results, may result in an impairment charge related to our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. our business is subject to extensive regulation. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges or central securities depositories. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, switzerland, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold interests in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-u.s. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our european exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our european exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the 30 table of contents u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. in the u.s., we are subject to oversight by the sec, and our subsidiaries nfx and idch are subject to oversight by the cftc. our subsidiary nocc is regulated as a power marketer by the federal energy regulatory commission (for transactions in every state but texas) and the public utility commission of texas (for transactions in texas). in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under the securities, commodities or other laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. our non-u.s. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the european union level. implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. if a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain losses that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although our u.s. cash equities and options exchanges outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies 31 table of contents competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer and president, and other senior officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key senior officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our senior officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. 32 table of contents we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; 33 table of contents inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets, that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 34 table of contents because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona, danish krone, norwegian krone, british pound sterling, australian dollar and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq omx risk committee, which is comprised of employees of nasdaq omx. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, or eps, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we will incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; 35 table of contents conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2011, there were 173,552,939 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. there were 5.8 million options exercisable as of december 31, 2011 at a weighted average exercise price of $15.02. it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes due august 2013, or the 2013 convertible notes, in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. however, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. the conversion rate will initially be 18.1386 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $55.13 per share of common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; 36 table of contents require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 90 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 35.6% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 31.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. 46 table of contents the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 2011 when compared with the same period in 2010: revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased $168 million, or 11.0%, to $1,690 million in 2011, compared with $1,522 million in 2010, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of $117 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $51 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to: an increase in access services revenues of $49 million, primarily reflecting increased revenues related to ften which was acquired in december 2010 and increased demand for services; an increase in total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $37 million, primarily related to u.s. operations; an increase in market data revenues of $14 million; an increase in issuer services revenues of $19 million, primarily from corporate solutions revenues; and an increase in market technology revenues of $13 million, primarily due to broker surveillance and delivery project revenues, partially offset by; a decrease in total cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $14 million, primarily related to u.s. operations. operating expenses increased $103 million, or 11.6%, to $994 million in 2011, compared with $891 million in 2010, reflecting an operational increase of $69 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $34 million. the operational increase in operating expenses was primarily due to: an increase in merger and strategic initiatives expense of $34 million, primarily reflecting costs incurred in connection with our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext; an increase in compensation and benefits expense of $29 million, primarily reflecting additional headcount from acquisitions, as well as stronger financial performance; an increase in professional and contract services expense of $9 million, primarily reflecting increased consulting costs; an increase in marketing and advertising expense of $4 million, primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers; and an increase in computer operations and data communications expense of $4 million, primarily due to higher expenses from acquisitions, partially offset by; a decrease in general, administrative and other expense of $13 million, primarily due to lower debt extinguishment and refinancing charges incurred in 2011 as compared to 2010. asset impairment charge of $18 million in 2011 was related to a non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment on our available-for-sale investment security in dfm. loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million in 2010 was related to our decision to close the businesses of both nasdaq omx europe, or neuro, and agora-x, llc, or agora-x, during the second quarter of 2010. interest expense increased $17 million, or 16.7%, to $119 million in 2011, compared with $102 million in 2010. this increase was primarily due to additional interest expense related to the issuance of our $370 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due january 16, 2018, or the 2018 notes, in december 2010. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. 47 table of contents 2012 outlook for the fourth year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. our platform continues to stand out as a reliable, flexible, and high capacity system delivering high levels of execution quality and speed under even extremely demanding market conditions. we launched several important initiatives during 2011 that should benefit us during the challenging economic environment anticipated for 2012, which included the migration of the nasdaq options market to the nasdaq omx phlx technology architecture, creating one of the fastest options match engines in the industry. the standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform offering strong performance to both existing and new clients and creating additional sales opportunities for both our transactions services and market data businesses. our 2010 experiences with launching inet technology on our u.s., nordic, and baltic exchanges continued in 2011 when the singapore stock exchange and the australian stock exchange each went live with genium inet technology. by using nasdaq omx high performance systems in all of our exchanges, the flexibility of inet and genium inet technology has been demonstrated around the world. bm&amp;fbovespa, the largest stock exchange in latin america, and bovespa market supervision, the brazilian self-regulatory organization, announced that they will use nasdaq omx smarts integrity market surveillance platform to monitor trading across their equities and commodities platforms. in february 2011, the sec implemented a short sale restriction that triggers when a security declines 10% from its previous close. in august 2011, the sec expanded its existing single stock trading pause to include all regulation nms securities. these regulations stem from the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash and the sec effort to promote market stability and investor confidence. european regulators are currently considering a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2012, driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe. we expect that cash equities markets will continue to fragment into additional venues, and trading will continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems. conversely, trading in otc derivatives will begin to move onto exchanges and other public execution facilities. during 2011, the overall ipo market continued its recovery from the impact of the 2008 financial crisis, though many companies decided to delay their offerings amidst the volatile market conditions that began in august 2011 following the u.s. credit rating downgrade and european debt problems. we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the gradual return of global economic growth to support increases in the number of ipos. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital is expected to add to the ipo pipeline in 2012. we continue to leverage the opportunities in market data brought about by the breadth of nasdaq omx data distribution capabilities by offering new data products to our customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers. we believe that the year ahead will be positive for our business drivers and our operations as the global economy slowly recovers. we believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2012. we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments we manage, operate and provide our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, which include access services, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, 48 table of contents commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group approximately 3,500 companies representing approximately $5.3 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2011. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. in addition, through our corporate solutions business, we offer companies access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, maximize board efficiency and facilitate corporate governance. market technology our market technology segment is the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business also is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. see note 18, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. sources of revenues and cost of revenues market services revenues transaction services u.s. cash equity trading u.s. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. we charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in nasdaq-listed and other listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. for the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. we record these credits as transaction rebates that are included in cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx platforms, and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when incurred. section 31 fees received are 49 table of contents included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec in the consolidated balance sheets until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. as we hold the cash received until payment to the sec, we earn interest income on the related cash balances. european cash equity trading we charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. these transaction fees are charged per executed order and as per value traded. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. u.s. derivative trading and clearing u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded on nasdaq omx phlx and the nasdaq options market are equity options, etf options, index options and currency options. we also operate nfx, which offers trading for foreign currency futures. similar to u.s. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. see u.s. cash equity trading above for further discussion. we engage in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts through our subsidiary nocc. revenues are based on notional amounts or volume of power and gas transacted and/or delivered and are recognized upon settlement of the contracts. european derivative trading and clearing european derivative trading and clearing revenues conducted on nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen are variable, based on the volume and value of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, and index options and futures by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for certain otc contracts. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we also offer clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. clearing revenues for resale and repurchase agreements are based on the value and length of the contract and are recognized when cleared. nasdaq omx commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives and carbon products. our trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on volume, and recognized when contracts are traded or cleared. we also generate clearing revenues for contracts traded on the otc derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities members are billed an annual fee in january which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. access services we generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. the type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. as a result, 50 table of contents access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. access services revenues also include revenues from ften, which we acquired in december 2010. ften is a leading provider of rtrm solutions for the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, ften provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. revenues for ften services are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers and are recognized when an arrangement exists, services are delivered to the customer, the selling price of the services to be provided under the arrangement is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. most contracts include professional services, implementation fees, monthly subscription fees from customers accessing on-demand services, and customer support. implementation fees are recorded to deferred revenue when billed and are recognized ratably over the remaining expected customer life. monthly professional services, subscription, and usage fees are recognized in the month the service is provided. market data market data revenues are earned from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. net u.s. tape plans revenues from u.s. tape plans include eligible utp plan revenues that are shared among utp plan participants and are presented on a net basis. under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive securities information processor from the total amount of tape revenues collected. after these costs are deducted from the tape revenues, we distribute to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by regulation nms, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse amex-listed securities. revenues from net u.s. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis. u.s. market data products we collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data, as well as select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. u.s. market data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants. european market data products european market data revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for four classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis. 51 table of contents broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. the primary services offered are flexible back-office systems which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. broker services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse. issuer services revenues global listing services u.s. listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. european listing services european listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north, are directly related to the listed companies market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. corporate solutions global listing services revenues also include fees from corporate solutions. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. revenues primarily include subscription income from shareholder.com, directors desk and glide technologies, and fees from globenewswire. prior to october 2009, corporate solutions revenues also included commission income from our carpenter moore insurance agency business. in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business. fee income for services other than placement of insurance coverage is recognized as those services are provided. shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. as part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. directors desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. glide technologies revenues are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers and are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. globenewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. for our insurance agency business, commission income was recognized when coverage became effective, the premium due under the policy was known or could be reasonably estimated, and substantially all required services related to placing the insurance had been provided. broker commission adjustments and commissions on premiums billed directly by underwriters were recognized when such amounts could be reasonably estimated. global index group we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, 52 table of contents associated derivatives and financial products in the u.s. and abroad. we also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. if a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. if a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. asset-based licenses are also generally long-term agreements. customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. these revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement. market technology revenues market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services. revenues are primarily derived from license, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe, of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request revenues include customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solution sold by nasdaq omx after delivery has occurred. change request revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. advisory services revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. broker surveillance revenues are derived from surveillance solutions targeting brokers and regulators throughout the world. broker surveillance revenues are subscription based and are recognized in revenue when earned. 53 table of contents nasdaq omx operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, issuer services, and market technology segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 market services cash equity trading nasdaq securities average daily share volume (in billions) 2.02 2.19 2.24 matched market share executed on nasdaq 27.7 % 28.6 % 33.0 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.1 % 2.9 % 1.4 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.1 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 30.9 % 35.5 % 36.6 % total market share (1) 61.7 % 67.1 % 71.0 % nyse securities average daily share volume (in billions) 4.34 4.83 5.64 matched market share executed on nasdaq 13.4 % 13.7 % 15.7 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.3 % 3.6 % 1.9 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 0.7 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 27.7 % 31.3 % 32.1 % total market share (1) 44.0 % 48.7 % 49.6 % nyse amex and regional securities average daily share volume (in billions) 1.47 1.45 1.89 matched market share executed on nasdaq 18.7 % 20.7 % 24.4 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 1.9 % 3.1 % 1.4 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.8 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 25.9 % 28.7 % 32.1 % total market share (1) 48.3 % 52.6 % 57.9 % total u.s.-listed securities average daily share volume (in billions) 7.84 8.47 9.77 matched share volume (in billions) 419.6 475.0 566.6 matched market share executed on nasdaq 18.1 % 18.8 % 21.3 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.1 % 3.3 % 1.7 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.0 % 0.1 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic securities average daily number of equity trades 370,295 284,840 212,465 average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 3.7 $ 3.3 $ 3.1 derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options total industry average daily volume (in millions) 16.8 14.3 13.4 nasdaq omx phlx matched market share 23.1 % 23.4 % 17.9 % the nasdaq options market matched market share 4.6 % 4.0 % 3.1 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily volume: options, futures and fixed-income contracts 458,547 428,523 329,350 nordic equity option contracts traded on edx ( 2) 95,374 finnish option contracts traded on eurex 99,394 117,450 77,312 nasdaq omx commodities clearing turnover: power contracts (twh) (3) 1,747 2,108 2,162 carbon contracts (1000 tco2) (3) 61,569 31,500 45,765 54 table of contents year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 issuer services initial public offerings: nasdaq 78 89 33 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 9 11 1 new listings: nasdaq (4) 151 195 131 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (5) 34 25 12 number of listed companies: nasdaq (6) 2,680 2,778 2,852 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (7) 776 780 797 market technology order intake (in millions) (8) $ 134 $ 160 $ 204 total order value (in millions) (9) $ 458 $ 495 $ 417 (1) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility. (2) in december 2009, derivative volume was transferred to nasdaq omx from edx. (3) primarily transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq omx commodities measured by terawatt hours (twh) and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tco2). (4) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (5) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north. (6) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (7) represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north at period end. (8) total contract value of orders signed during the period. (9) represents total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue, as discussed in note 7, deferred revenue to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. segment operating results of our total 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,690 million, 67.4% was from our market services segment, 21.8% was from our issuer services segment and 10.8% was from our market technology segment. of our total 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our market services segment, 22.6% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. of our total 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our market services segment, 22.7% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. 55 table of contents the following table shows our revenues by segment, cost of revenues for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) market services $ 2,886 $ 2,700 $ 2,934 6.9 % (8.0 )% cost of revenues (1,748 ) (1,675 ) (1,958 ) 4.4 % (14.5 )% market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 1,138 1,025 976 11.0 % 5.0 % issuer services 369 344 330 7.3 % 4.2 % market technology 183 152 145 20.4 % 4.8 % other 1 2 # (50.0 )% total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,690 $ 1,522 $ 1,453 11.0 % 4.7 % # denotes a variance equal to 100.0%. 56 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) transaction services cash equity trading revenues: u.s. cash equity trading (1) $ 1,617 $ 1,600 $ 2,010 1.1 % (20.4 )% cost of revenues: transaction rebates (1,087 ) (1,094 ) (1,394 ) (0.6 )% (21.5 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (375 ) (341 ) (467 ) 10.0 % (27.0 )% total u.s. cash equity cost of revenues (1,462 ) (1,435 ) (1,861 ) 1.9 % (22.9 )% u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 155 165 149 (6.1 )% 10.7 % european cash equity trading 93 90 95 3.3 % (5.3 )% total cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 248 255 244 (2.7 )% 4.5 % derivative trading and clearing revenues: u.s. derivative trading and clearing (2) 471 390 232 20.8 % 68.1 % cost of revenues: transaction rebates (257 ) (218 ) (81 ) 17.9 % # brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (29 ) (22 ) (16 ) 31.8 % 37.5 % total u.s. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues (286 ) (240 ) (97 ) 19.2 % # u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 185 150 135 23.3 % 11.1 % european derivative trading and clearing 128 115 87 11.3 % 32.2 % total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 313 265 222 18.1 % 19.4 % access services revenues 223 173 144 28.9 % 20.1 % total transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 784 693 610 13.1 % 13.6 % market data revenues: net u.s. tape plans 115 117 128 (1.7 )% (8.6 )% u.s. market data products 135 126 119 7.1 % 5.9 % european market data products 83 70 78 18.6 % (10.3 )% total market data revenues 333 313 325 6.4 % (3.7 )% broker services revenues 19 15 32 26.7 % (53.1 )% other market services revenues 2 4 9 (50.0 )% (55.6 )% total market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,138 $ 1,025 $ 976 11.0 % 5.0 % # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $304 million in 2011, $252 million in 2010 and $314 million in 2009. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. 57 table of contents (2) includes section 31 fees of $26 million in 2011, $19 million in 2010 and $14 million in 2009. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. transaction services transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increases were primarily due to increases in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. the increase in 2011 was partially offset by lower cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. an increase in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees also contributed to the increase in 2010. u.s. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2011 compared with 2010 and increased in 2010 compared with 2009. the decrease in 2011 was primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes, as well as a decline in our matched market share, partially offset by modified rates. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to modified rates and lower tiered rebate payouts, partially offset by a significant decline in industry trading volumes and a decline in our matched market share. u.s. cash equity trading revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenues and modified rates, partially offset by a decline in industry trading volumes and a decline in our matched market share. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a significant decline in industry trading volumes, a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenues charged by us to our customers and a decline in our matched market share. we record section 31 fees as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $304 million in 2011, $252 million in 2010 and $314 million in 2009. the increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 fee rates in 2011, partially offset by lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems. the decrease in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to lower section 31 fee rates and lower dollar value traded on nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems. for nasdaq and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates decreased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the decrease in 2011 was primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes, as well as a decline in our matched market share, partially offset by higher average rebate rates due to changes in our pricing program on the nasdaq, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx trading systems. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on nasdaq trading system due to a significant decline in industry volumes, lower tiered rebate payouts and a decline in our matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees, partially offset by a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry trading volumes and in our matched market share. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees, lower routing costs, and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry trading volumes. 58 table of contents european cash equity trading revenues european cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic exchanges and neuro (for periods prior to closing our neuro business). european cash equity trading revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million, partially offset by a decrease in trading activity. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to revised trading fees introduced in the first quarter of 2010, partially offset by an increase in trading activity and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increases were primarily due to increases in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. the increase in 2010 was partially offset by lower average net fees for traded contracts. the increase in u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009 was also due to higher section 31 pass-through fee revenues as discussed below. similar to u.s. cash equity trading, section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $26 million in 2011, $19 million in 2010 and $14 million 2009. the increase in both 2011 and 2010 compared with the prior year periods is primarily due to an increase in dollar value traded and higher section 31 fee rates. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increases in industry trading volumes and market share. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to a revised fee structure implemented in the first quarter of 2010 along with higher volumes traded and an increase in our matched market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increases were primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. european derivative trading and clearing revenues european derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on nasdaq omx stockholm and nasdaq omx copenhagen, clearing revenues from resale and repurchase agreements on nasdaq omx stockholm and revenues from nasdaq omx commodities. beginning in may 2010, trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products include revenues from nord pool. european derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million, partially offset by lower trading activity in energy products. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher trading and clearing revenues due to the transfer of derivative volume from edx to nasdaq omx in the fourth quarter of 2009. also contributing to the increase in 2010 was transaction activity associated with clearing resale and repurchase agreements, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2010, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. 59 table of contents the following table shows revenues from european derivative trading and clearing: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) european derivative trading and clearing revenues: options and futures contracts $ 55 $ 49 $ 33 12.2 % 48.5 % energy and carbon products 45 41 35 9.8 % 17.1 % fixed-income products 22 18 14 22.2 % 28.6 % other revenues and fees 6 7 5 (14.3 )% 40.0 % total european derivative trading and clearing revenues $ 128 $ 115 $ 87 11.3 % 32.2 % access services revenues access services revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in revenues from ften, which was acquired in december 2010, and increased demand for services. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to increased demand for co-location and network connectivity services and a revised fee structure for access services. market data market data revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increases in u.s. and european market data products revenues and a favorable impact from foreign exchange, partially offset by a decrease in net u.s. tape plans revenues. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to decreases in net u.s. tape plans revenues and european market data products revenues, partially offset by an increase in u.s. market data products revenues. net u.s. tape plans revenues the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to lower plan shareable revenues and declines in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. cash equities, as calculated under the sec-mandated market data revenue quoting and trading formula. the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. cash equities, as calculated under the sec-mandated market data revenue quoting and trading formula, and reductions in the size of the tape plan revenue pools mainly driven by declines in subscriber populations. u.s. market data products revenues the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to higher customer demand for proprietary data products, mainly index data, and higher audit fees. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to growth of new products such as bx totalview, options data feeds and mutual fund products, partially offset by discontinued products. european market data products revenues the increase in european market data products revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to modified fees for market data products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. the decrease in european market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in subscriber populations and discontinued products, partially offset by modified fees for market data products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. 60 table of contents broker services broker services revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 is primarily due to new customers and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse in november 2009. issuer services the following table shows revenues from our issuer services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) global listing services revenues: annual renewal $ 118 $ 113 $ 117 4.4 % (3.4 )% listing of additional shares 39 39 37 5.4 % initial listing 16 18 20 (11.1 )% (10.0 )% total u.s. listing services 173 170 174 1.8 % (2.3 )% european listing services 54 49 45 10.2 % 8.9 % corporate solutions 90 78 72 15.4 % 8.3 % total global listing services revenues 317 297 291 6.7 % 2.1 % global index group revenues 52 47 39 10.6 % 20.5 % total issuer services revenues $ 369 $ 344 $ 330 7.3 % 4.2 % global listing services global listing services revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increases in both 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to increases in corporate solutions and european listing services revenues. european listing services revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in the market capitalization of nordic issuers, partially offset by a decrease in the number of listed companies from 797 as of december 31, 2009 to 780 as of december 31, 2010. european listing services revenues are recognized ratably over a 12-month period. corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to expanding customer utilization of shareholder.com, directors desk and globenewswire, as well as revenues from zvm, which was acquired in december 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011. partially offsetting the increase in 2010 was a decrease in carpenter moore revenues primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business in october 2009. global index group revenues global index group revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to an increase in underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs, as well as additional demand for new licensed etfs and other financial products, partially offset by lower futures and options volumes. 61 table of contents market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) market technology: license, support and facility management $ 115 $ 103 $ 106 11.7 % (2.8 )% delivery project 24 17 20 41.2 % (15.0 )% change request, advisory and broker surveillance 44 32 19 37.5 % 68.4 % total market technology revenues $ 183 $ 152 $ 145 20.4 % 4.8 % market technology revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million, as well as operational increases in change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues and delivery project revenues. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues, partially offset by decreases in delivery project revenues and license, support and facility management revenues. license, support and facility management revenues license, support and facility management revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in facility management revenues due to the loss of facility management customers. partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in support revenues resulting from our acquisition of smarts in august 2010, clients entering the support stage of their contracts and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million in 2010. delivery project revenues delivery project revenues increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues in the current periods, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to higher deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million in 2010. delivery project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are typically deferred until the customization and any significant modifications are completed and are then recognized over the post contract support period. change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increases were primarily due to an increase in broker surveillance revenues resulting from our acquisition of smarts in august 2010. the increase in 2010 was also due to higher change request activity. in addition, there was a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2011. total order value as of december 31, 2011, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $458 million. market technology deferred revenue of $128 million, which is included in this amount, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for 62 table of contents these signed orders. see note 7, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2012 $ 141 2013 117 2014 77 2015 59 2016 39 2017 and thereafter 25 total $ 458 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 458 $ 412 $ 408 11.2 % 1.0 % marketing and advertising 24 20 15 20.0 % 33.3 % depreciation and amortization 109 103 104 5.8 % (1.0 )% professional and contract services 90 78 76 15.4 % 2.6 % computer operations and data communications 65 58 58 12.1 % occupancy 91 88 81 3.4 % 8.6 % regulatory 35 35 32 9.4 % merger and strategic initiatives 38 4 17 # (76.5 )% general, administrative and other 84 93 59 (9.7 )% 57.6 % total operating expenses $ 994 $ 891 $ 850 11.6 % 4.8 % # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses increased $103 million in 2011 compared with 2010 and $41 million in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 reflects an operational increase of $69 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $34 million. the operational increase of $69 million in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in merger and strategic initiatives expenses, compensation and benefits expense, professional and contract services expense, marketing and advertising expense, and computer operations and data communications expense, partially offset by a decrease in general, administrative and other expense. the increase in 2010 reflects an operational increase of $27 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. the operational increase of $27 million in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expense for charges incurred in connection with the january 2010 repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, partially offset by asset retirements in the third quarter of 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. compensation and benefits expense increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in salary expense from smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011, 63 table of contents and higher compensation expenses reflecting stronger financial performance, as well as an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million. compensation and benefits expense in 2010 compared with 2009 reflects an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million and higher compensation expenses reflecting stronger financial performance, partially offset by a decrease in salary expense primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and our broker services operations in the united kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2009. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 2,433 employees at december 31, 2011 from 2,395 employees at december 31, 2010 and 2,235 employees at december 31, 2009. the increase in headcount in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to our acquisition of glide technologies. the increase in headcount in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to our acquisitions of smarts, ften and zvm. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to production and media costs of a television advertisement campaign, as well as increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased slightly in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million, as well as additional depreciation and amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions of smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011. professional and contract services expense increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to costs incurred for information technology security consultants and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign currency of $1 million. computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to our acquisitions of smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. occupancy expense increased in both 2011 compared with 2010 and 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in co-location rent related to the build-out of our data centers, a $5 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2010 due to our decision to vacate space we currently lease in philadelphia, san francisco and london, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. partially offsetting these increases in 2010 was an $8 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2009 on the space we occupy in stockholm, sweden. regulatory expense remained flat in 2011 compared with 2010 and increased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2010 was primarily due to outsourcing the regulation of nasdaq omx phlx to finra in 2010. finra provides regulatory services to the nasdaq stock market, the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and the markets operated and regulated by nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $38 million in 2011 compared with $4 million in 2010 and $17 million in 2009. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2011 primarily related to costs incurred for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to our acquisition of glide technologies in october 2011. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2010 included legal and consulting costs related to our acquisitions of smarts and ften and costs related to strategic initiatives. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2009 was directly 64 table of contents attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, but did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments. the costs primarily included consulting and legal costs related to our integration of omx ab and phlx. merger expenses in 2009 also included costs related to sales and use tax exposures that existed on previous acquisitions. general, administrative and other expense was $84 million in 2011 compared with $93 million in 2010 and $59 million in 2009. general, administrative and other expense for 2011 included a pre-tax charge of $25 million related to the write-off of a portion of the unamortized balance of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to the repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2013 convertible notes, that was completed in october 2011, a pre-tax charge of $6 million related to the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs related to the $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility that was repaid in september 2011, as well as an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. general, administrative and other expense for 2010 included a pre-tax charge of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs of $28 million incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million. general, administrative and other expense for 2009 included asset retirements of $10 million related to obsolete technology assets, partially offset by the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance and other costs. non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (in millions) interest income $ 11 $ 9 $ 13 22.2 % (30.8 )% interest expense (119 ) (102 ) (102 ) 16.7 % net interest expense (108 ) (93 ) (89 ) 16.1 % 4.5 % dividend and investment income 1 (3 ) 2 # # asset impairment charge (18 ) # loss on divesture of businesses (11 ) # # income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net 2 2 (107 ) # debt conversion expense (25 ) # loss on sale of investment security (5 ) # gain on sales of businesses 12 # total non-operating expenses $ (123 ) $ (105 ) $ (212 ) 17.1 % (50.5 )% # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total non-operating expenses were $123 million in 2011 compared with $105 million in 2010 and $212 million in 2009. total non-operating expenses for 2011 primarily include net interest expense of $108 million and a pre-tax impairment charge of $18 million on our investment security in dfm. total non-operating expenses for 2010 primarily include net interest expense and a pre-tax loss on divesture of businesses. total non-operating expenses for 2009 primarily include net interest expense, as well as pre-tax impairment charges on unconsolidated investees, debt conversion expense, and a loss on the sale of an investment security, partially offset by a gain on sale of businesses. 65 table of contents interest income interest income increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents in 2011 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to lower average interest rates earned on our short term investments included in cash and cash equivalents, as well as on financial investments, at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. interest expense interest expense for 2011 was $119 million, and was comprised of $97 million of interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $6 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $3 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense increased in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to higher average outstanding debt obligations in 2011 resulting from the issuance of our 2018 notes in december 2010 to partially finance the repurchase of shares. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. interest expense for 2010 was $102 million, and was comprised of $81 million in interest expense, $14 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts and $7 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense. interest expense remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009 as decreases in interest expense due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2010 resulting from principal amortization payments made in 2009 and 2010 and repurchases of our debt during 2009 were offset by increases in interest expense due to higher average interest rates on our debt obligations. dividend and investment income dividend and investment income increased in 2011 compared with 2010 and decreased in 2010 compared with 2009. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio as a result of decreased interest rates. the decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio as a result of increased interest rates. asset impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm. see investment in dfm, of note 5, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. loss on divestiture of businesses the loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million in 2010 was due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro ($6 million) and agora-x ($5 million) in the second quarter of 2010. income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net net income from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in both 2011 and 2010 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. the net loss in 2009 of $107 million was primarily due to impairment charges related to our investments in nasdaq dubai and agora-x and the sale of our shares in orc software ab, or orc. see below for further discussion. impairment of nasdaq dubai in december 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of nasdaq dubai. the realignment was completed in may 2010 and at that time, nasdaq dubai became a wholly-owned 66 table of contents subsidiary of dfm, a publicly traded company controlled by borse dubai. we received a 1% equity interest in dfm in exchange for our equity interest in nasdaq dubai. our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with borse dubai and nasdaq dubai remained unchanged. in connection with the realignment of the ownership structure discussed above, a third-party specialist determined the fair value of nasdaq dubai. based on this valuation, we determined our carrying value of nasdaq dubai was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in an $82 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for the year ended december 31, 2009. at the time of the realignment in may 2010, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash loss of $1 million in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the consolidated statements of income, which was based on the difference between the price of dfm common stock multiplied by the number of shares of dfm acquired and the carrying value of our investment in nasdaq dubai at the time of the exchange. nasdaq omx originally contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to nasdaq dubai in exchange for a 33 1 / 3 % equity stake in nasdaq dubai in february 2008. at that time, nasdaq omx valued its total nasdaq dubai investment at $128 million. prior to the impairment, the investment had a carrying value of $120 million. impairment of agora-x in december 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our investment in agora-x from 20% to 85%. in evaluating the fair value of the total investment, it was determined that our carrying value of agora-x was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $5 million. sale of orc shares during the second quarter of 2009, we sold our shares in orc, representing 25.25% of the share capital of orc, to a group of swedish and other international investors for $54 million in cash. as a result of the sale, we recognized a $19 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. debt conversion expense in the third quarter of 2009, we recorded debt conversion expense of $25 million related to an inducement for conversion of most of the 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. the $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of the series a convertible preferred stock issued of $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. see preferred stock, of note 12, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. loss on sale of investment security in connection with our business combination with omx ab, we acquired a long-term available-for-sale investment in oslo b&oslash;rs exchange, or oslo. during the second quarter of 2009, we made a strategic decision to sell this investment, demonstrating our intent to no longer hold this investment, and recorded a $5 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees. gain on sales of businesses in october 2009, we sold substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business. certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business were sold to woodruff-sawyer &amp; co. and the eastern region insurance brokerage business was sold to aon risk services companies, inc. in connection with these sales, we recorded a gain of $7 million. 67 table of contents in november 2009, we sold our broker services operations in the united kingdom to td waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million. income taxes nasdaq omx income tax provision was $190 million in 2011 compared with $137 million in 2010 and $128 million in 2009. the overall effective tax rate was 33.2% in 2011, 26.0% in 2010 and 32.7% in 2009. the increase in the effective tax rate in 2011 when compared with 2010 was due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where nasdaq omx operates. furthermore, in the third quarter of 2011, we recorded significant adjustments due to provision-to-tax return adjustments related to our 2010 tax return liabilities and a corresponding effect on deferred tax liabilities. the lower effective tax rate in 2010 when compared with 2009 was primarily due to the restructuring of certain nasdaq omx subsidiaries. also, 2010 results included reductions in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. nasdaq omx and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-u.s. income tax returns. federal income tax returns for the years 2008 and 2009 are currently under audit by the internal revenue service. the review of federal income tax returns for the years 2007 and 2010 is expected to commence in 2012. several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2000 through 2009 and we are subject to examination for 2010. non-u.s. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for the years 2003 through 2010. in 2011, we settled audits with various taxing jurisdictions and paid a total of $1 million with respect to the years 2006 through 2009. since this amount was included in our unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2010, such payments did not affect our 2011 effective tax rate. the outcome of these audits did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. we anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2011 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. the final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. we anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. in the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the finnish tax authority in which such authority challenges certain interest expense deductions claimed by nasdaq omx in finland for the year 2008. nasdaq omx tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the finnish tax authority. the appeal also demands certain penalties be paid with regard to the company tax return filing position. if the finnish tax authority prevails in its challenge, additional tax and penalties for the years 2008-2011 would total approximately $23 million. we expect the finnish tax authority to agree with our position once its review is completed and, as such, believe it is unlikely nasdaq omx will be assessed any additional tax and penalties. through december 31, 2011, we have recorded the tax benefits associated with the filing position. in june 2009, nasdaq omx filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. the application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on january 1, 2009. in june 2010, we received a 68 table of contents favorable response from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings in which all members of the council agreed that the interest expense is deductible for swedish tax purposes. the swedish tax agency appealed the council ruling to the swedish supreme administrative court. in november 2011, the swedish supreme administrative court rendered a ruling consistent with the favorable ruling from the swedish tax council for advance tax rulings. since we have recorded all tax benefits associated with this matter, the ruling did not affect our financial position or results of operations. net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $4 million in 2011 compared with $6 million in 2010 and $3 million in 2009. the losses are primarily attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have also provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions made during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to nasdaq omx for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions and other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our normal operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs, primarily costs for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services, related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, (ii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges related to the repayment of the 2013 convertible notes and the repayment of our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility, (iii) an asset impairment charge related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm, (iv) an adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (v) significant tax adjustments, net due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where nasdaq omx operates. 69 table of contents non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2010 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs, consisting primarily of costs for legal and consulting related to our acquisitions of smarts and ften, (ii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges related to the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, (iii) a sublease loss reserve charge recorded on space we occupy in philadelphia, san francisco and london due to our decision to vacate this space, (iv) a loss on divestiture of businesses due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro ($6 million) and agora-x ($5 million), (v) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete technology, (vi) workforce reduction costs related to acquisitions, (vii) an adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (viii) significant tax adjustments, net due to provision-to-tax return adjustments related to our 2009 tax return liabilities. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs directly attributable to the business combination with omx ab and the acquisition of phlx, which did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments, (ii) a gain on early extinguishment of a portion of the 2013 convertible notes, net of costs, (iii) a sublease loss reserve charge recorded on the space we occupy in stockholm, (iv) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete technology, (v) workforce reduction costs related to acquisitions, (vi) a debt conversion expense related to an inducement for conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock, (vii) impairment charges related to our investments in nasdaq dubai and agora-x, as well as the sale of our orc shares, (viii) a loss on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in oslo, (ix) a gain on the sale of substantially all of our carpenter moore insurance agency business and a gain on the sale of our broker services operations in the united kingdom, (x) an adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (xi) significant tax adjustments, net primarily due to reductions in 2008 u.s. tax liabilities based on recent tax return filings and reductions in u.s. tax liabilities for years which are no longer subject to examination. 70 table of contents the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 387 $ 2.15 $ 395 $ 1.91 $ 266 $ 1.25 non-gaap adjustments: merger and strategic initiatives 38 0.21 4 0.02 17 0.08 extinguishment of debt 31 0.17 40 0.20 (4 ) (0.02 ) sublease reserves 5 0.03 8 0.04 loss on divestiture of businesses 11 0.05 asset retirements 2 0.01 13 0.06 workforce reductions 9 0.04 15 0.07 debt conversion expense 25 0.12 asset impairment charge 18 0.10 impairment of nasdaq dubai 82 0.38 impairment of agora-x 5 0.02 sale of orc shares 19 0.09 loss on sale of investment security 5 0.02 gain on sale of businesses (12 ) (0.06 ) other 4 0.03 5 0.02 5 0.02 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (28 ) (0.16 ) (28 ) (0.14 ) (47 ) (0.21 ) significant tax adjustments, net 5 0.03 (32 ) (0.15 ) (8 ) (0.04 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 68 0.38 16 0.08 123 0.57 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 455 $ 2.53 $ 411 $ 1.99 $ 389 $ 1.82 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 180,011,247 206,514,655 214,537,907 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. liquidity and capital resources while global markets and economic conditions continue to improve from adverse levels experienced during the past several years, investors and lenders remain cautious about the pace of the global economic recovery. this lack of confidence in the prospects for growth could result in sporadic increases in market volatility and lackluster trading volumes, which could in turn affect our ability to obtain additional funding from lenders. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy, as evidenced by our ability to refinance our credit facilities. historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. in addition to these cash sources, we have a $750 million revolving credit commitment (including a 71 table of contents swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our senior unsecured five-year credit facility. as of december 31, 2011, $524 million is available. see 2011 credit facility, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, interest payments on our debt obligations, and our share repurchase program. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $543 million at december 31, 2011, compared with $279 million at december 31, 2010, an increase of $264 million. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, derivative clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 506 $ 315 restricted cash 43 60 non-current restricted cash 105 105 financial investments, at fair value 279 253 total financial assets $ 933 $ 733 cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents of $506 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2011 increased $191 million from december 31, 2010 primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by net cash used in financing activities and investing activities. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. 72 table of contents current restricted cash, which was $43 million as of december 31, 2011 and $60 million as of december 31, 2010, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at nasdaq omx stockholm and cash held in customer margin accounts at idcg and nocc. non-current restricted cash was $105 million at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 and includes a deposit in the guaranty fund of idcg of $80 million, as well as $25 million segregated for nocc to improve its liquidity position, which are not available for general use. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $158 million as of december 31, 2011 and $61 million as of december 31, 2010. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $348 million as of december 31, 2011 and $254 million as of december 31, 2010. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program in october 2011, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing nasdaq omx to repurchase in the aggregate up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. these purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by our management. the purchases will be funded from existing cash balances. the share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time. during the fourth quarter of 2011, we repurchased 3,983,481 shares of our common stock at an average price of $25.10, for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $279 million as of december 31, 2011 and $253 million as of december 31, 2010 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly swedish government debt securities. of these securities, $212 million as of december 31, 2011 and $190 million as of december 31, 2010 are restricted assets to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for nasdaq omx stockholm clearing operations. this balance also includes our available-for-sale investment security in dfm valued at $18 million as of december 31, 2011 and $33 million as of december 31, 2010. see note 5, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading securities and available-for-sale investment security. 73 table of contents debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 (in millions) 3.75% convertible notes (net of discount) (1) october 2012 $ $ 2.50% convertible senior notes august 2013 88 388 4.00% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2015 399 398 $1.2 billion senior unsecured five-year credit facility: $450 million senior unsecured term loan facility september 2016 439 $750 million revolving credit commitment september 2016 226 5.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2018 367 367 5.55% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2020 598 598 $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility repaid september 2011 570 total debt obligations 2,117 2,321 less current portion (45 ) (140 ) total long-term debt obligations $ 2,072 $ 2,181 (1) as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, approximately $0.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% convertible notes remained outstanding. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. in addition to the revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona and u.s. dollar, totaled $447 million ($206 million in available liquidity and $241 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2010, these credit facilities totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. derivative clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements derivative clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for nasdaq omx stockholm, nasdaq omx commodities and idcg. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2011, we were required to maintain regulatory capital of $296 million which is comprised of: $4 million of restricted cash; $80 million of non-current restricted cash; and $212 million primarily in swedish government debt securities. these securities are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2011. 74 table of contents in addition, we have available credit facilities of $241 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. see debt obligations above for further discussion. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2011, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of $11.9 million, or $11.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2011, nasdaq options services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of $3.3 million, or $3.0 million in excess of the minimum amount required. other capital requirements nasdaq options services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with occ. cash flow analysis the following tables summarize the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2011 2010 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 669 $ 440 52.0 % investing activities (146 ) (118 ) 23.7 % financing activities (325 ) (595 ) (45.4 )% effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) (6 ) 16.7 % net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 191 (279 ) # cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 315 594 (47.0 )% cash and cash equivalents at the end of period $ 506 $ 315 60.6 % # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. net cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2011: net income of $383 million, plus: non-cash items of $206 million comprised primarily of $109 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $36 million of share-based compensation expense, $31 million for debt extinguishment and refinancing charges, $25 million related to loss on asset retirements and impairment charges, and $13 million related to accretion of debt discounts, partially offset by $10 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. decrease in other assets of $69 million primarily due to a decrease in non-current deferred tax assets related to the utilization of a capital-loss carry-back. increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $24 million primarily due to the timing of payments and an increase in accrued interest payable. 75 table of contents increase in section 31 fees payable to sec of $24 million primarily due to higher fee rates in 2011. partially offset by a: decrease in other liabilities of $22 million primarily reflecting the utilization of sublease reserves and decreased accrued taxes. decrease in deferred revenue of $14 million mainly due to the timing and delivery of market technology projects. the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2010: net income of $389 million, plus: non-cash items of $178 million comprised primarily of $103 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $37 million for debt extinguishment and refinancing charges (including $28 million for the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 and $9 million in costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge), $33 million of share-based compensation expense, $14 million related to accretion of debt discounts, $11 million for loss on divestiture of businesses, $6 million related to loss on asset retirements and impairment charges, and $6 million related to amortization of debt issuance costs, partially offset by deferred income taxes of $35 million. partially offset by a: increase in other assets of $85 million primarily related to a prepaid expense for a data center lease of $32 million, an increase in non-current restricted cash related to $25 million segregated for nocc to improve its liquidity position and an increase of $30 million in current restricted cash which relates to cash held on customer margin accounts at idcg and nocc, as well as increases related to regulatory requirements within nasdaq omx nordic. decrease in section 31 fees payable to sec of $55 million primarily due to lower fee rates in 2010. we expect that net cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, share-based compensation and the timing and amount of other payments that we make. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities, purchases of property and equipment and cash used for acquisitions, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. in 2010, cash used in investing activities primarily related to purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. net cash used in financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily consisted of the repayment of debt obligations of $948 million consisting of the repayment of our term loans in place as of december 31, 2010, or the term loans, of $570 million, repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2013 convertible notes for $343 million, a required quarterly principal payment of $11 million on our $450 million funded term loan, or 2016 term loan, and an optional principal payment of $24 million on our revolving credit commitment. we also utilized $100 million of cash in connection with our share 76 table of contents repurchase program. these decreases were partially offset by proceeds from debt obligations of $700 million consisting of $450 million in proceeds received from the issuance of the 2016 term loan and $250 million in proceeds received from borrowings under our revolving credit commitment. for further discussion of the 2016 term loan, as well as the repayment of our debt obligations, see credit facilities, of note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2010 primarily consisted of the repayment of debt obligations of $2.2 billion consisting of the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009 of $1.7 billion, repayment of our $370 million senior unsecured bridge facility, repayment of $130 million on the term loans, including optional payments of $60 million, and a $16 million payment related to the payoff of our subordinated debt obligation assumed in the acquisition of certain subsidiaries of nord pool. we also utilized $797 million of cash in connection with our share repurchase program, which includes our stock repurchase from borse dubai. these decreases were partially offset by net proceeds received of $2.4 billion, which is comprised of the following: $1 billion from the issuance of senior unsecured notes; $700 million from the issuance of term loans; $370 million from the issuance of the 2018 notes; and $370 million from our senior unsecured bridge facility. for further discussion of our debt obligations, see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our share repurchase programs, see share repurchase programs and share repurchase from borse dubai, of note 12, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq omx has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2011: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 2,641 $ 127 $ 341 $ 1,057 $ 1,116 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 499 76 124 115 184 other obligations (3) 29 24 5 total $ 3,169 $ 227 $ 470 $ 1,172 $ 1,300 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2011, an interest rate of 1.67% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our 2016 term loan and an interest rate of 1.46% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our revolving credit commitment. all other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2011. see note 8, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) in connection with our acquisitions of ften, smarts and glide technologies, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and other closing conditions. at december 31, 2011, these agreements provide for future payments of $29 million and are included in other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 77 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements collateral received for clearing operations, guarantees issued and credit facilities available collateral received for clearing operations through our clearing operations in the derivatives markets with nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, as well as riskless principal trading at nocc and the resale and repurchase market with nasdaq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. we also act as the counterparty for certain trades on otc derivative contracts. the derivatives are not used by us for the purpose of trading on our own behalf and the resale and repurchase agreements are not used by us for financing purposes. the structure and operations of nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm differ from other clearinghouses. see derivative positions, at fair value, of note 14, fair value of financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as a legal counterparty of each transaction, we bear the counterparty risk between the purchaser and seller in the contract. the counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the financial supervisory authority of the application country, which requires us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. proposed regulations, including the european market infrastructure regulation, are expected to require ccps to maintain a default fund to which clearing members of the ccp will have to contribute. in anticipation of these regulations, nasdaq omx stockholm is currently preparing for the implementation of a member sponsored default fund with an expected launch date in march 2012. the level of regulatory capital will be determined in accordance with our regulatory capital policy, as approved by the sfsa. clearing member contributions will be proportional to the exposures of each clearing member. we require our customers and clearing members to pledge collateral and meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. total customer pledged collateral with nasdaq omx commodities and nasdaq omx stockholm was $5.0 billion at december 31, 2011 and $8.7 billion at december 31, 2010. this pledged collateral is held by a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx in the event of default. since these funds are not held by nasdaq omx commodities or nasdaq omx stockholm and they are not available for our use, we do not receive any interest income on these funds. we also require market participants at idcg and nocc to meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations and to provide collateral to cover the daily margin call. customer pledged cash collateral held by idcg and nocc, which was $9 million at december 31, 2011 and $15 million at december 31, 2010, is included in restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belong to idcg and nocc. clearing member pledged cash collateral, included in idcg guaranty fund, was $8 million at both december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010. this cash is included in non-current restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belong to idcg. through our clearing operations in the resale and repurchase markets with nasdaq omx stockholm, pledged collateral which is transferred through nasdaq omx stockholm at initiation of the bilateral contract between the two clearing member counterparties, primarily consists of swedish government debt securities. in addition, market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. in the event that one of the members cannot fulfill its obligation to deliver or receive the underlying security at the agreed upon price, nasdaq omx stockholm is required to buy or sell the security in the open market to fulfill its obligation. in order to protect itself against a price movement in the value of the underlying security, or price risk, nasdaq omx stockholm requires all members to provide additional margin as needed, which is valued on a daily basis and is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by nasdaq omx stockholm in the event of default. 78 table of contents guarantees issued and credit facilities available in addition to the collateral pledged by market participants discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. financial guarantees issued to us totaled $4 million at december 31, 2011 and $5 million at december 31, 2010. credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona and u.s. dollar, totaled $447 million ($206 million in available liquidity and $241 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2010, these facilities totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. leases we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. other guarantees we have provided other guarantees of $17 million as of december 31, 2011 and $18 million as of december 31, 2010. these guarantees primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. in addition, for certain market technology contracts, we have provided performance guarantees of $6 million as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. we have also provided a $25 million guarantee to our wholly-owned subsidiary, nocc, to cover potential losses in the event of customer defaults, net of any collateral posted against such losses. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for the above guarantees. brokerage activities our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to a clearinghouse or exchange, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. to mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral, as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. however, we believe that the potential for nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. 79 table of contents we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the following table summarizes our financial assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk as of december 31, 2011: financial assets financial liabilities (1) negative impact of a 100 bp adverse shift in interest rate (2) (in millions) floating rate positions (3) $ 655 $ 665 $ fixed rate positions (4) 260 1,463 1 total $ 915 $ 2,128 $ 1 (1) represents total contractual debt obligations. (2) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (3) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (4) financial assets primarily consist of swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.6 years. we are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities at december 31, 2011. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2011 positions, each 1.0% change in interest rate on our net floating rate positions would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by an immaterial amount as reflected in the table above. we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial assets, which totaled $260 million at december 31, 2011 and have an average duration of 1.6 years. the net effect of a parallel shift on 1.0% of the interest rate curve, taking into account the change in fair value and increase in interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $1 million. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk. for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 35.6% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 31.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 33.9% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone, and danish krone. 80 table of contents our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2011 0.1542 1.3922 0.1785 0.1868 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 23.3 % 3.6 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 3.1 % percentage of operating income 22.0 % 5.9 % 2.8 % 3.9 % (3.2 )% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (39 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (5 ) $ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2010 0.1391 1.3272 0.1657 0.1782 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 22.3 % 3.4 % 3.0 % 3.0 % 2.2 % percentage of operating income 16.6 % 5.6 % 4.0 % 4.4 % (4.2 )% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (34 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (4 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (10 ) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. 81 table of contents our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2011 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (millions of dollars) swedish krona (1) $ 4,191 $ (419 ) norwegian krone 267 (27 ) euro 89 (9 ) australian dollar 88 (9 ) (1) includes goodwill of $3,171 million and intangible assets, net of $998 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from risk. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. for these trades, novation is done at the end of the trading day, and settlement is complete by 10:00 am on the following day. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc and occ rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc and occ. historically, neither nasdaq execution services nor nasdaq options services has incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. 82 table of contents through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with nasdaq omx commodities, nasdaq omx stockholm and idcg, as well as riskless principal trading at nocc and the resale and repurchase market with nasdaq omx stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. see collateral received for clearing operations, guarantees issued and credit facilities available, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above for further discussion. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. most of our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. the following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. management estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. for a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. revenue recognition issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. market technology revenues revenues are primarily derived from license, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vsoe of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and 83 table of contents other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized in revenue when earned. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we are required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2011 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in financial accounting standards board, or fasb, accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. in conducting the initial qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for reach reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assessed critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, or any other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. first, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuations, which incorporate assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with 84 table of contents the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by the our board of directors. if the first step results in the carrying value exceeding the fair value of any reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. however, events such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units may result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. impairment exists if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value and an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. there was no impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. however, events such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results may result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. in 2009, we recorded losses of $87 million due to impairment charges related to nasdaq dubai and agora-x. these charges were included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the consolidated statements of income. see note 5, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. no other impairments of long-lived assets were recorded in 2011, 2010 or 2009. 85 table of contents amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 3 10 years customer relationships: 10 30 years other: 4 10 years the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 3, acquisitions and strategic initiatives, and note 4, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. 86 table of contents pension and post-retirement benefits pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. we assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. in evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. see note 10, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. actuarial assumptions are based upon management best estimates and judgment. the expected rate of return on plan assets for our u.s. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. the long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. while we consider the pension plans recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return. share-based compensation the accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance share units, or psus. prior to october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock awards and after october 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock units. we estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the black-scholes valuation model. assumptions used in the black-scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk-free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. the risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. our computation of expected volatility is based on a market-based implied volatility. our credit facilities limit our ability to pay dividends. before our credit facilities were in place, it was not our policy to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. see note 11, share-based compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. we capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software. under our market technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. prior to reaching 87 table of contents technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. foreign currency translation foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate. deferred taxes are not provided on cumulative translation adjustments where we expect earnings of a foreign subsidiary to be indefinitely reinvested. the income tax effect of currency translation adjustments related to foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely reinvested is recorded as a component of deferred taxes with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. recently adopted accounting pronouncements asc topic 820 in january 2010, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to fasb asc topic 820, fair value measurements and disclosures, or asc topic 820. the amended guidance requires new disclosures as follows: amounts related to transfers in and out of levels 1 and 2 shall be disclosed separately and the reasons for the transfers shall be described. in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3), a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis. the guidance also provides amendments that clarify existing disclosures related to the following: reporting fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities. providing disclosure surrounding the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both level 2 and level 3 fair value measurements. this accounting guidance was effective for us beginning on january 1, 2010, except for the disclosure requirements surrounding the reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurements, which were effective for us on january 1, 2011. since this guidance only required additional disclosure, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 220 in june 2011, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to fasb asc topic 220, comprehensive income, or asc topic 220, which eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. instead, the amended guidance requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income containing two sections, net income and other comprehensive income, or in two separate but consecutive statements. this accounting guidance is effective for us on january 1, 2012 with early adoption permitted. we 88 table of contents adopted this guidance as of june 30, 2011 and present two separate but consecutive statements presenting the components of comprehensive income. since this guidance only required a change in the format of the presentation of comprehensive income, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 350 in september 2011, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to fasb asc topic 350, which affects all entities that have goodwill reported in the financial statements. the amended guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. this accounting guidance is effective for us on january 1, 2012 with early adoption permitted. we adopted this guidance as of september 30, 2011 and used the qualitative assessment option for our annual goodwill impairment test performed for fiscal 2011. for testing procedures and results, see goodwill, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. since this guidance only changed the manner in which we assess goodwill for impairment, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2011 2nd qtr 2011 3rd qtr 2011 4th qtr 2011 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 817 $ 838 $ 946 $ 839 cost of revenues (402 ) (422 ) (508 ) (417 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 415 416 438 422 total operating expenses 234 258 243 261 operating income 181 158 195 161 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 104 $ 92 $ 110 $ 82 basic earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 0.52 $ 0.62 $ 0.46 diluted earnings per share $ 0.57 $ 0.51 $ 0.61 $ 0.45 1st qtr 2010 2nd qtr 2010 3rd qtr 2010 4th qtr 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 771 $ 886 $ 757 $ 783 cost of revenues (411 ) (496 ) (385 ) (383 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 360 390 372 400 total operating expenses 248 211 207 225 operating income 112 179 165 175 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 61 $ 96 $ 101 $ 137 basic earnings per share $ 0.29 $ 0.46 $ 0.51 $ 0.70 diluted earnings per share $ 0.28 $ 0.46 $ 0.50 $ 0.69 89 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 19 risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. iii table of contents forward-looking statements the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or sec, encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. this annual report on form 10-k contains these types of statements. words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words or terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future expectations as to industry and regulatory developments or business initiatives and strategies, future operating results or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. these include, among others, statements relating to: our 2013 outlook; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other transactional activities; the integration of acquired businesses, including accounting decisions relating thereto; the effective dates for, and expected benefits of, ongoing initiatives, including strategic and capital return initiatives; the impact of pricing changes; tax matters; costs and savings associated with restructuring activities; the cost and availability of liquidity; and the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation to which we are a party and other contingencies. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our operating results may be lower than expected; loss of significant trading and clearing volume, market share or listed companies; economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, including interest rate and foreign currency risk, inherent in u.s. and international operations; government and industry regulation; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including the fact that such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, and our ability to realize synergies from business combinations and acquisitions; covenants in our credit facilities, indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness which may restrict the operation of our business; and adverse changes that may occur in the securities markets generally. most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our control. you should consider the uncertainty and any risk related to forward-looking statements that we make. these risk factors are more fully described under the caption item 1a. risk factors, in this annual report on form 10-k. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. you should carefully read this entire annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements or report the occurrence of unanticipated events. for any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business overview we are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, and many other functions. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq stock market, a registered national securities exchange. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the u.s. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. as of december 31, 2012, the nasdaq stock market was home to 2,577 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $5.2 trillion. in addition, in the u.s. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, three options markets and a futures market. we also engage in riskless principal trading and clearing of over-the-counter, or otc, power and gas contracts. in europe, we operate exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland as nasdaq omx nordic, and exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania) as nasdaq omx baltic. collectively, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and etfs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. through nasdaq omx first north, our nordic and baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies. as of december 31, 2012, the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, together with nasdaq omx first north, were home to 754 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $1.0 trillion. we also operate nasdaq omx armenia. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities operates the world largest power derivatives exchange, one of europe largest carbon exchanges and together with nord pool spot, n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. we also operate nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. history and structure nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of finra (then known as the national association of securities dealers, inc.). beginning in 2000, finra restructured and broadened ownership in nasdaq by selling shares to finra members, investment companies and issuers listed on the nasdaq stock market. in connection with this restructuring, nasdaq applied to the sec to register the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange. finra fully divested its ownership of nasdaq in 2006, and the nasdaq stock market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. in 2006, nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. as a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries. on february 27, 2008, nasdaq and omx ab combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with borse dubai limited, a dubai company, or borse dubai, and nasdaq was renamed the nasdaq omx group, inc. this transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a u.s.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as more than 70 other exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. our genium inet and x-stream inet technology platforms, based on proven inet technology, provide technology to customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. also in 2008, we expanded our u.s. market services business through the acquisitions of the philadelphia stock exchange, inc., or phlx, and the boston stock exchange, incorporated, or bsx. these acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate options markets. in addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional u.s. cash equities markets. in 2010, we also grew our market services offerings with the acquisition of ften, inc., or ften, a leading provider of real-time risk management, or rtrm, solutions for the financial securities market. 2 table of contents we also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. in 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of nord pool asa, or nord pool. as a result of this acquisition, we launched nasdaq omx commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. in 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of nord pool. also in 2010, through our subsidiary nasdaq omx commodities clearing company, or nocc, we purchased the assets of north american energy credit and clearing corp., expanding our presence in the otc energy commodity markets. together with nord pool spot, nasdaq omx commodities launched n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. in july 2012, we acquired nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. in august 2010, we acquired smarts group holdings pty ltd, or smarts, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. this acquisition allowed our market technology business to enter the surveillance and compliance market. in recent years, we have expanded our corporate solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. in may 2012, we acquired a 72% ownership interest in bwise beheer b.v. and its subsidiaries, or bwise, a netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. we have agreed to purchase the remaining 28% ownership interest in bwise in two separate transactions, resulting in 100% ownership by the first half of 2015. most recently, in december 2012, we entered into an agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses. upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our corporate solutions business. the proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013. competitive strengths premier global exchange company. we are a premier global exchange company that operates the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our exchanges had an average daily trading volume of 6.6 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $12.4 trillion. in addition, across our markets, we had 3,331 listings representing over 40 countries as of december 31, 2012, including many of the world largest companies. our wholly-owned subsidiary the nasdaq stock market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the u.s. leader in global exchange technology. we believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. as the world first electronic stock market, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 40 years. our inet platform processes trades at sub-55 microsecond average transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. in addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at ten times the average daily volume allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. furthermore, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including china (hong kong), japan, singapore, australia and the u.s. our genium inet offering, based on proven inet technology, provides technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. we believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms. diversified operations and products. we have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. in addition, our recent acquisitions, investments and strategic initiatives have significantly diversified our product offerings, particularly in the derivatives trading and clearing, commodities, corporate solutions and surveillance technology businesses. our business has continued to increase subscription-based and recurring revenue. proven and disciplined management team. we have a proven and disciplined management team led by robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, that has substantial financial services industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. we believe the nasdaq omx management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities. commitment to regulatory integrity. as a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. nasdaq omx is always committed to working with regulators, exchanges and market participants to ensure transparent trading and a fair and orderly market for the benefit of investors. in some instances, nasdaq omx has entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. in addition to operating real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring, nasdaq also maintains enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. we are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the nasdaq omx brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets. 3 table of contents products and services prior to january 1, 2013, we operated in three segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. of our 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,663 million, 66.4% was from our market services segment, 22.5% was from our issuer services segment and 11.1% was from our market technology segment. of our 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,682 million, 67.6% was from our market services segment, 21.5% was from our issuer services segment and 10.9% was from our market technology segment. of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,516 million, 67.6% was from our market services segment, 22.3% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. see note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data. as announced in january 2013, we realigned our reportable segments as a result of changes to the organizational structure of our businesses. see note 20, subsequent event, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, which include access services, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. u.s. transaction services in the u.s., we offer trading in cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs on our cash equities, options and futures markets and engage in riskless principal trading of otc power and gas contracts through nasdaq omx commodities clearing, or nocc. our transaction-based platforms in the u.s. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs. the platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and etfs, providing fee-based revenues. cash equities trading. the nasdaq stock market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading u.s.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 17.0% of all u.s. cash equities volume for 2012. we also operate two additional u.s. cash equities markets, called nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx. with these markets, we offer a second and third quote within the u.s. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. all of our cash equities exchanges are run on our inet trading system, providing customers additional fast and efficient cash equity securities markets using familiar technology. in accessing these markets, our customers can leverage existing infrastructure, reducing incremental costs when connecting. in 2012, nasdaq omx bx matched an average of approximately 2.7% and nasdaq omx psx matched an average of approximately 1.1% of all u.s. cash equities volume. our fully electronic u.s. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities. market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or atss, and registered securities exchanges. these services are offered for nasdaq-listed and non-nasdaq-listed securities. specifically, our platforms: provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer); provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the opening cross, closing cross, halt cross and ipo cross; and provide anonymity to market participants (i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity), which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others. trade reporting. all u.s. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. trades executed on our cash equities exchanges are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. our cash equities exchanges, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the unlisted trading privileges plan, or the utp plan, for nasdaq-listed securities and under the consolidated tape and consolidated quotation plans for securities listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, nyse mkt and other exchanges. 4 table of contents through the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility, or finra/nasdaq trf, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. the finra/nasdaq trf collects trade reports as a facility of finra. a large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally and is submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting purposes only. the finra/nasdaq trf charges market participants for locked-in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. the finra/nasdaq trf also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the finra/nasdaq trf for reporting and clearing. in addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers. u.s. derivative trading and clearing. in the u.s., we operate the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx options for the trading of equity options, etf options, index options and foreign currency options. as of december 31, 2012, nasdaq omx phlx, which operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market, was the largest equity options market in the u.s. during the year ended december 31, 2012, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 27.2% in the u.s. equity options market, consisting of approximately 21.3% at nasdaq omx phlx, 5.5% at the nasdaq options market and 0.4% at nasdaq omx bx options. together, the combined market share of 27.2% represented the largest share of the u.s. equity options market and etf options market. our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. in the u.s., we also operate nfx, a designated contract market regulated by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission, or cftc. nfx offers trading of futures contracts on spot gold, which clear at the options clearing corporation, or occ. nasdaq omx also engages in riskless principal trading and clearing of otc power and gas contracts through our subsidiary nocc. european transaction services nordics. nasdaq omx nordic operations comprise the exchanges in stockholm (sweden), copenhagen (denmark), helsinki (finland), and iceland. collectively, the exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds, trading and clearing services for derivatives, and clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for nordic market data. trading is offered in nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, etfs, bonds and other interest-related products. nasdaq omx stockholm also offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in sweden, finland, denmark and iceland via the local central securities depositories. nasdaq omx trading offerings also include cash equities listed in norway and norwegian derivatives products. the offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all nordic cash equity products on one platform. most of our cash equity trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic are centrally cleared by the european multilateral clearing facility n.v., or emcf, a leading european clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake. nasdaq omx stockholm offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the central counterparty, or ccp. nasdaq omx stockholm also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. as a result of an agreement between the swedish money market council and nasdaq omx, a large portion of the swedish interbank resale and repurchase agreement market is cleared through nasdaq omx stockholm. baltics. nasdaq omx baltic operations comprise the exchanges in tallinn (estonia), riga (latvia) and vilnius (lithuania). as of december 31, 2012, nasdaq omx owns nasdaq omx tallinn and has a majority ownership in nasdaq omx vilnius and nasdaq omx riga. in addition, nasdaq omx tallinn owns the central securities depository in estonia, nasdaq omx riga owns the central securities depository in latvia, and nasdaq omx helsinki and nasdaq omx vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in lithuania. 5 table of contents the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. the securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in estonia, latvia and lithuania. in addition, in estonia and latvia, nasdaq omx offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in estonia, nasdaq omx offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. the baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services. tom . in december 2012, we announced an agreement to acquire a 25% stake in the order machine, or tom, a dutch cash equities and equity derivatives trading venue. the terms of the transaction also provide us an option to acquire an additional 25.1% of the remaining shares at a future date. this transaction delivers on our strategy to expand our derivatives presence across the european market. the acquisition is subject to regulatory approval. commodities trading and clearing. nasdaq omx commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives, carbon and other commodities products. nasdaq omx commodities offering includes the world largest power derivatives exchange and one of europe largest carbon exchanges. nasdaq omx commodities has over 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. nasdaq omx commodities offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. nasdaq omx commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the ccp. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities, together with nord pool spot, operates n2ex, a marketplace for physical u.k. power contracts. in july 2012, we acquired nos clearing, a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. u.k. in june 2012, we announced the intention to launch a new london-based trading venue, nlx, offering a range of both short-term interest rate (stirs) and long-term interest rate (ltirs) euro and sterling-based listed derivative products. nlx aims to enhance the competitive landscape by providing highly competitive execution and clearing fees and significant margin efficiencies. the platform is expected to launch in the second quarter of 2013, pending financial services authority approval. access services we provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems scalability without affecting performance or reliability. our u.s. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. the financial information exchange product that uses the fix protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing fix technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. market participants may also access our systems using qix, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, or ctci, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. firms also may use former inet protocols, such as ouch and rash, to access our single trading platform. we also earn revenues from connectivity to various market data feeds. as an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the nasdaq workstation, an internet-browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. finally, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. access services revenues also include revenues from ften, a leading provider of rtrm solutions for the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, ften provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. in 2012, we announced the launch of finqloud, a platform for financial services applications that provides efficient management and storage of financial data. 6 table of contents market data we earn market data revenues from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. net u.s. tape plans. the nasdaq stock market operates as the exclusive securities information processor of the utp plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in nasdaq-listed securities. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx are participants in the utp plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. in the role as the securities information processor, the nasdaq stock market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in nasdaq-listed securities whether traded on the nasdaq stock market or other exchanges. we sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. after deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive securities information processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, based on a formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. u.s. market data products. our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. we collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. revenues from u.s. market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. we use our broad distribution network of more than 2,000 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. we offer a range of proprietary data products, including nasdaq totalview, our flagship market depth quote product. totalview shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in the nasdaq stock market for nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and ipo crosses. we also offer totalview products for our nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx markets. totalview is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. we also offer totalview enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. in addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee. we operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include: nasdaq basic, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information; nasdaq last sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via internet portals; nasdaq market replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for nasdaq, nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities at any point in time; nasdaq omx datastore, which is designed to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content; mutual fund quotation service, a service for over 29,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds; mutual fund dissemination service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds; global index dissemination service, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and etfs; top of phlx options, which is a top-price-level data feed directly from the nasdaq omx phlx options market; matchview, a direct data feed that provides a view of the prevailing best bid offer of other exchanges; 7 table of contents global index watch, which provides index weights and components, including advanced notification of corporate actions, as well as real-time, daily and historical index values for nasdaq omx indexes; nasdaq data-on-demand, a service that gives customers instant access to historical level 1 information; global access, a service that uses nasdaq omx expertise to perform services for clients, such as client on-site reviews; event driven analytics, a machine readable news service delivering key economic indicators directly from the source; and nasdaq omx ultrafeed, an efficient aggregated and normalized data feed including all north american equity, options, futures, indexes and fund market data. european market data products. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, offer european market data products and services. these data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in european marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. european market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. we provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. these products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics. significant european market data products include: nordic equity totalview, which provides full market insight into the order book, news and analysis data for all nordic cash equities. the product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators; nordic derivative totalview itch, the low latency source for nordic derivatives, which displays all bid/ask prices in the order book, real time listing details and trading information; and nordic fixed income level 2, which provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the swedish financial supervisory authority, or sfsa. services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. we offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. available services also include direct settlement with the nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication, or swift, to deposit banks. revenues are based on a fixed basic fee for back-office brokerage services, such as administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. issuer services our issuer services segment includes our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing approximately $6.2 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2012. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. in addition, through our corporate solutions business, we offer companies access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. 8 table of contents global listing services our global listing services business includes our u.s. listings, european listings and corporate solutions businesses. u.s. listings. companies listed on the nasdaq stock market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. companies seeking to list securities on the nasdaq stock market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. the nasdaq stock market currently has three listing tiers: the nasdaq global select market, the nasdaq global market and the nasdaq capital market. all three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). as of december 31, 2012, a total of 2,577 companies listed securities on the nasdaq stock market, with 1,446 listings on the nasdaq global select market, 634 on the nasdaq global market and 497 on the nasdaq capital market. we aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing ipos as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. in 2012, the nasdaq stock market attracted 158 new listings. included in these listings were 72 ipos, almost 48% of the total u.s. ipos in 2012. the new listings were comprised of the following: total new listings on the nasdaq stock market 158 switches from nyse/nyse mkt 16 ipos 72 upgrades from otc 36 etfs, structured products and other listings 34 in 2012, a total of 16 nyse- or nyse mkt-listed companies switched to the nasdaq stock market, representing approximately $135 billion in market capitalization, including kraft foods, texas instruments, goodyear tire &amp; rubber and analog devices. european listings. we also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. for smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the nasdaq omx first north alternative marketplaces. as of december 31, 2012, a total of 754 companies listed securities on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. our european listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments. customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, etfs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. in 2012, a total of 18 new companies were listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north. corporate solutions. our corporate solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to customers, including companies listed on our exchanges. through our corporate solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. we provide corporate solutions in the following key areas of focus: investor relations . we provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. market monitoring . we offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance. board practice . we offer management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness. global visibility. we provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our marketsite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies. webcasting. we offer webcasting and investor relations communication services for companies in the nordic region through our subsidiary zvm, a leading provider of webcasting services in northern europe. corporate communications and reputation management. through our subsidiary, glide technologies, we offer corporate communications and reputation management solutions to investor relations and public relations professionals. 9 table of contents in may 2012, we acquired a 72% ownership interest in bwise, a netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. we have agreed to purchase the remaining 28% ownership interest in bwise in two separate transactions, resulting in 100% ownership by the first half of 2015. in december 2012, we entered into an agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses. upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our corporate solutions business. the proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013. global index group we are one of the world leading index providers. we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. we believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the nasdaq omx brand. license fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. in addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and etfs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. we also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. at the end of 2012, nasdaq omx indexes were the basis for over 7,000 structured products with nearly $1.0 trillion of notional value. nasdaq omx indexes are now the basis for 97 exchange traded products with over $55.0 billion in assets under management. our flagship index, the nasdaq-100 index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on the nasdaq stock market. during 2012, the global index group launched the first phase of the nasdaq global index family, which includes approximately 4,000 indexes. the nasdaq global index family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. the family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. the nasdaq global index family covers 45 countries and 9,000 securities with a combined float-adjusted market capitalization of over $32 trillion. in december 2012, nasdaq omx acquired the index business of mergent, inc., including indxis. mergent is an established index provider and a renowned supplier of business and financial data on global publically listed companies. with this acquisition, nasdaq omx global indexes became one of the largest providers of dividend-themed indexes based on benchmarked assets and further enhanced its custom index offering capabilities and services. market technology powering more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 developed and emerging countries, we are the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. we also provide surveillance technology to 11 regulators and 71 brokers world-wide. our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. technology solutions. the systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. nasdaq omx technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the australian securities exchange, icap, bolsa de valores de colombia, egypt stock exchange, hong kong exchanges and clearing, six swiss exchange, singapore exchanges, tokyo commodity exchange, osaka securities exchange and sbi japannext. our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. in the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. systems integration, operation and support. a central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. we also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. by transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. at the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure. 10 table of contents advisory services. our advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. we understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of nasdaq omx as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry. broker solutions . smarts broker is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. delivered via a browser based application, smarts broker is fast to implement, requires no on-site installation or maintenance, and comes with little or no hardware costs. this service covers 50 markets world-wide. core technology. technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. at nasdaq omx, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. in 2012, nasdaq omx established an enterprise-wide operational excellence program to strengthen the way we develop, deploy and maintain technology products in the marketplace. we continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. nasdaq omx trading technology is capable of handling multi-million messages per second at an average speed of sub-55 microseconds, currently one of the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world. the foundation for nasdaq omx core technology is inet. the inet technology is used across nasdaq omx u.s. and european markets. inet is also a key building block of our market technology offerings, genium inet and x-stream inet. genium inet and x-stream inet both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers. intellectual property we own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. we have registered many of our most important trademarks in the united states and in foreign countries. for example, our primary nasdaq mark is a registered trademark in the united states and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the omx trademark also has been registered worldwide. we also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of nasdaq omx nordic and our operations in europe. many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. examples of registered trademarks used in our european operations include: omx, genium, genium inet, secur, click xt and exigo. to support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. we also maintain copyright protection in our nasdaq-branded materials. competition market services. the cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. we compete in the u.s. against nyse euronext, bats global markets, direct edge, regional exchanges and atss. in europe, our major competitors include nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the london stock exchange group plc, or lse, the spanish exchanges, six swiss exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or mtfs, such as chi-x and bats europe, which are similar to u.s. atss. competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board, or otc trading, in the u.s. and elsewhere. in bond trading, we compete in europe with alternative marketplaces such as euromts limited. for derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place otc, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. the competitive significance in europe of these varied alternative trading 11 table of contents venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the markets in financial instruments directive, or mifid, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and the direct cost of trade execution. cash equity securities trading. the u.s. marketplace continues to evolve as the number of exchanges increases and less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and atss, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. while many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, through interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. in 2012, broker-dealer owned systems continued the rapid growth that began in 2009. in addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as liquidnet and investment technology group posit platform. during 2010, three new exchange competitors to nasdaq omx appeared. no new u.s. exchanges were launched or received approval in 2011 or 2012. however, nasdaq omx continues to face fierce competition from all trading venues for market share. regulatory events also could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape. in june 2012, the sec approved a plan for finra and the national securities exchanges to institute a limit up-limit down system designed to reduce short-term volatility in equity trading by preventing trades in individual exchange-listed stocks from occurring outside of a specified price band. the plan is expected to be implemented in 2013 with the intention of replacing the single stock trading pauses currently in place. these regulations stem from the 2010 sec concept release on market structure issues as well as the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash. in july 2012, the sec voted to require national securities exchanges and finra to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (cat) to improve regulators ability to monitor trading activity. we are currently working with finra and the other national securities exchanges to develop a plan to create a consolidated audit trail. any potential rules concerning halting trading during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape by helping or hurting nasdaq omx or its competitors business models. in december 2012, intercontinentalexchange, or ice, announced plans to acquire nyse euronext. the deal is expected to close in the second half of 2013, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. should the proposed transaction be completed, ice has indicated its intent to spin off euronext via an ipo. this transaction has the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. the european landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by mifid in november 2007. throughout europe, new mtfs have been created with the most prominent mtfs (chi-x, turquoise, and bats) based in the united kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. in 2012, bats completed its acquisition of chi-x europe and currently operates both platforms independently but under common ownership. mtfs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our nordic exchanges. trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as markit boat, also continue to be active. electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in europe and are looking to grow their businesses. in the nordics, the burgundy mtf grew modestly in 2010 but contracted slightly in both 2011 and 2012 and was acquired by the oslo borse in 2012. these entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do atss in the u.s., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation and pursuit of exchange status. because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. while the state of competition in europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense. as a result of the conditions in the u.s. and europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. as a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. we periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive. derivatives. our principal competitors for trading options in the u.s. include the chicago board options exchange, or cboe, the international securities exchange, or ise, nyse arca, nyse amex, bats options, c2 options exchange and the box options exchange. competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. nasdaq omx operates three options exchanges with different market structures. nasdaq omx phlx operates a customer priority, pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with cboe, ise, nyse arca and nyse amex. the nasdaq options market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with nyse arca and bats options. on june 29, 2012, nasdaq omx launched nasdaq omx bx options, its third options platform. nasdaq omx bx options supports multiple allocation and priority models, including 12 table of contents price/time priority and customer priority with pro rata execution allocation. miami international holdings, inc. received approval to launch miax options exchange, a fully electronic options platform, and did so in december 2012. the further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing. mifid does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses cash equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. in 2012, nasdaq omx agreed to acquire a 25% stake in tom, which competes with nyse euronext for trading single stock derivatives in the netherlands. as of the end of 2012, tom market share was 15%. exchange based competition for trading in european derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on european equities is primarily with eurex group, or eurex, nyse liffe, edx london limited and, to a limited extent, the u.s. options exchanges. such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. in addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from otc derivative markets. as trading in europe evolves under the current review of the original mifid legislation, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. clearing. in both the u.s. and europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all cash equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation borders. some countries, such as sweden, did not have a clearinghouse until 2009. in some countries, such as the u.s., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the central securities depository. in some, such as germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others, such as the u.k., the clearinghouse, exchange, and central securities depository are separate. furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using ccp services in european clearing than in the u.s. at this time, competition in clearing in europe remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as emcf, x-clear and euroccp serving non-national mtfs or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges. however, competition is altering the clearing business in europe in response to the european code of conduct in clearing and settlement. in the u.s., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the u.s. a viable possibility. should clearing competition become a reality in the u.s., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution. market data services. the market data business in the u.s. includes both consolidated and proprietary data products. consolidated data products are distributed by sec-mandated consolidators (one for nasdaq-listed stocks and another for nyse and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange systems. in europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. our revenues from the sale of consolidated market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade nasdaq-listed securities. current sec regulations permit these regional exchanges and finra alternative display facility to quote and trade nasdaq-listed securities. trade reporting facilities regulated by finra are also operated by the nasdaq stock market and other exchanges. the utp plan entitles these exchanges, finra alternative display facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of utp plan tape fees, based on the formula required by regulation nms that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, the nasdaq stock market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on nyse and nyse mkt-listed securities for those respective tape plans. participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. in january 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the nasdaq general revenue sharing program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to the nasdaq stock market. we continuously evaluate and refine both programs. to remain competitive, in july 2006 and in january 2008, we changed the terms of the program and established a new nasdaq data revenue sharing program. in december 2010, we again changed the terms of the program which were effective january 2011. we may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures. the sale of our proprietary data products in both the u.s. and europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products, sometimes at a lower price or free of charge. our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. consequently, our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. new exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume, and new entrants typically price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. the market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in 13 table of contents innovative product design and development. other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. the growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by nasdaq omx and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges efforts to expand their market data offerings. listings. our primary competitor for larger company listings in the u.s. is nyse. the nasdaq stock market also competes with nyse mkt for listing of smaller companies. in early 2012, bats announced its first primary listings which are currently limited to etfs. directedge has announced its intention to compete for listings in the future. the nasdaq stock market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country. the listings business in europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. each country has one or more national exchanges that are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. for those considering an alternative, the european exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are lse, nyse euronext, deutsche b&ouml;rse and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic. in addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as lse alternative investment market, euronext alternext, deutsche b&ouml;rse entry standard, borsa italiana expandi market, plus markets plc, the pink sheets llc and the over-the-counter bulletin board, or otcbb. other exchanges in sweden include the nordic growth market and aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations. indexes. the nasdaq stock market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. the indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. for example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the nasdaq-100 index and the nasdaq composite index. we face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. market technology. the traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the enormous cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including nyse euronext and lse, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. these organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. they also offer customization and operation expertise. nasdaq omx provides technology to over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories worldwide and provides compliance services through its subsidiary smarts. regulation we are subject to extensive regulation in the united states and europe. u.s. regulation u.s. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. the sec occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. self-regulatory organizations, or sros, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. sros, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the sec and are subject to the sec extensive regulation and oversight. this regulatory framework applies to our u.s. business in the following ways: regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and regulation of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. the rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. u.s. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. regulation of u.s. exchanges. sros in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. the exchange act and the rules thereunder impose on the sros many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. in general, an sro is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. with the registration of the nasdaq stock market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own sro status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of finra. with the acquisitions of phlx and bsx, we acquired additional sro 14 table of contents licenses. as sros, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. broker-dealers that choose to become members of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, and/or nasdaq omx bx are subject to the rules of those exchanges. broker-dealers may also choose other sro memberships, including membership in finra. all of our u.s. national securities exchanges are subject to sec oversight, as prescribed by the exchange act, including periodic and special examinations by the sec. our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the sec or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. we are also subject to section 17 of the exchange act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the sec for examination. we have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the sec or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the sec. to the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. section 19 of the exchange act provides that our exchanges must submit to the sec proposed changes to any of the sros rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute sro rules. the sec will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the sec may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. the sec action is designed to ensure that applicable sro rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the exchange act and its rules and regulations. in addition, pursuant to the requirements of the exchange act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the sec. nasdaq omx currently operates three cash equities and three options markets in the united states. we operate the nasdaq stock market and the nasdaq options market pursuant to the nasdaq stock market sro license; nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx bx options pursuant to nasdaq omx bx sro license; and nasdaq omx psx and the nasdaq omx phlx options market pursuant to nasdaq omx phlx sro license. in addition, nasdaq omx bx regulated the box market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of nasdaq omx bx and box. nasdaq omx did not have an ownership interest in box, and box compensated nasdaq omx bx based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to box. under the terms of the regulatory services agreement, nasdaq omx bx services for the box market terminated for trades occurring after may 11, 2012. box became its own sro on may 14, 2012. nasdaq omx bx will continue to provide regulatory services for trades occurring prior to the termination date until all regulatory matters related to these trades have been resolved. finra provides regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. we have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our marketwatch department. we refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the markets operated or regulated by the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx and nasdaq omx bx to finra for further investigation. regulatory audit. prior to our acquisition of bsx, bsx was issued an administrative order by the sec in september 2007. pursuant to the order, bsx agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party auditor to conduct a comprehensive audit of bsx surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. bsx also undertook to include the audit opinion in its annual report. since neither bsx nor its successor entity nasdaq omx bx prepares an annual report, the report of the regulatory auditor, katten muchin rosenman llp, which was dated january 7, 2013, is included below. the nasdaq omx bx, inc. ( nasdaq or the exchange ) retained katten muchin rosenman llp ( katten ) as a third-party auditor to fulfill an undertaking with the securities and exchange commission (the commission ), made pursuant to an administrative order (the order ) originally issued against the boston stock exchange ( bse ) in september 2007. (1) the order required the third-party auditor to provide an audit opinion as to its assessment of the exchange surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. (2) we are writing at this time to provide our audit opinion as required by the order. as noted above, the order was originally issued against the bse. the order detailed violations of customer priority rules committed by specialist participant firms on the trading floor of the bse between 1999 and 2004 involving the beacon trading system. in 2008, nasdaq acquired all of the outstanding membership interest in the bse and its two subsidiaries, boston options exchange regulation, l.l.c. and the bse clearing corporation. although the activities detailed by the order had no relation to nasdaq (other than through nasdaq acquisition of bse), nasdaq proceeded with third-party audits of the boston options exchange ( box ) and the equities platform of nasdaq omx bx (which commenced operations in january 2009). the order required the third-party auditor to conduct an initial audit and a second audit two years after the date of the initial audit. the third-party auditor was to evaluate certain aspects of the exchange including the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of the exchange. as well, the order required the third-party auditor to evaluate the exchange testing process of the exchange automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems. (3) 15 table of contents katten completed the first round of audits in 2010 and issued confidential reports concerning the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of box on june 29, 2010 and the equities platform of nasdaq omx bx on july 30, 2010 (collectively, the audit reports ). the field work for the audits was conducted between november 2009 through march 2010 ( audit period ). an additional report assessing the testing process and surveillance quality assurance for nasdaq omx bx for equities was issued in february 2012 by a technology consultant. while field work for the technology review of box began in february 2012, the work was terminated when box ceased to be a facility of the exchange in april 2012. (4) based on the scope of our audit and our considerations of the assessments set forth in our confidential audit reports and other such matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that notwithstanding certain observations and weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the audit reports, nasdaq omx bx policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to detect and deter violations of the applicable federal securities laws and exchange rules relating to trading on the exchange during the audit period. we recognize that no regulator can provide total assurance that violations of federal securities laws and exchange rules relating to trading will be detected by surveillance systems and examinations. also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the exchange policies and procedures after the audit period is subject to the risk that the exchange policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective due to changes in business conditions or regulatory requirements or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may decline. the conclusion expressed in this letter is as of the date hereof. we assume no obligation to update, revise, or supplement this letter, nor to communicate further with or advise you with respect to any matter covered herein or any change, development, occurrence, circumstance, or condition in respect of any such matter. this letter is furnished solely to you in connection with the matters covered herein. this letter may not be used, relied upon, disclosed, circulated, published, communicated, made available, quoted, or referred to, by or to any other person, for any other purpose, or in connection with any other agreement, document, transaction or matter without the prior written consent of the undersigned. (1) securities exchange act release no. 34-56352 (sept. 5, 2007). (2) the order states that [n]o later than 45 days after each audit is concluded, bse shall require the auditor to submit an audit opinion as to its assessment of the bse surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs to the bse board of governors and to the following officers at the commission : (i) the director of ocie; (ii) the director of the division of market regulation; and (iii) the director of the boston regional office. the order at 9. (3) the order required the auditor to evaluate the bse live testing process, to be conducted during non-trading hours, of the bse automated surveillance systems using simulated trading data that includes data suggesting possibly abusive trading instances, including an analysis of the effectiveness of such surveillance systems when tested against the simulated trading patterns. order at 8. (4) the box options exchange llc received approval from the commission as a national securities exchange on april 27, 2012. securities exchange act release no. 66871 (april 27, 2012). broker-dealer regulation. nasdaq omx broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, the sros and the various state securities regulators. nasdaq execution services, llc currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx to other venues for execution. nasdaq options services, llc performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from the nasdaq options market, nasdaq omx bx options and nasdaq omx phlx. nasdaq execution services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx, nasdaq omx phlx, bats-y exchange, bats-z exchange, cboe, chicago stock exchange, edga exchange, edgx exchange, finra, national stock exchange, nyse, nyse mkt and nyse arca. nasdaq options services is registered as a broker-dealer with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. it is also a member of the nasdaq stock market , nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx bx options, bats-z exchange, box, cboe, c2 options exchange, finra, ise, nfa, miami international stock exchange, nyse mkt and nyse arca. 16 table of contents the sec, nyse and finra adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. the sec, sros and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. the sec and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. the sec and sro rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. all broker-dealers have an sro that is assigned by the sec as the broker-dealer designated examining authority, or dea. the dea is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the sec financial responsibility rules. finra is the current dea for both nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services. as registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. as of december 31, 2012, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. regulatory contractual relationships with finra. the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx phlx, nasdaq omx psx and nasdaq omx bx have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services finra provides to the respective sros. under these agreements, finra personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and finra bills us a fee for these services. these agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. however, our sros retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by finra. in addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. our sros continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area. exchange act rule 17d-2 permits sros to enter into agreements, commonly called rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the sec with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. our sros have entered into several such agreements under which finra assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement: agreements with finra covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and the members of these exchanges; joint industry agreements with finra covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; joint industry agreement with finra covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. regulation nms and options intermarket linkage plan. we are subject to regulation nms for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the options intermarket linkage plan. these are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the exchange act. one of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors orders at the best market price. both regulation nms and the options intermarket linkage plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. cftc regulation. with the acquisition of phlx, we also acquired its subsidiary, nfx (formerly the philadelphia board of trade), a designated contract market under the commodity exchange act. as a designated contract market, nfx is subject to regulatory oversight by the cftc, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the u.s. nfx currently lists futures contracts for spot gold. the national futures association, or nfa, and the options clearing corporation provide certain regulatory services to nfx pursuant to regulatory services agreements. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or dodd-frank act, also has resulted in increased cftc regulation of some of our subsidiaries outside the united states and their customers. 17 table of contents energy commodity regulation. our subsidiary nocc is regulated as a power marketer by the federal energy regulatory commission (for transactions in every state but texas) and the public utility commission of texas (for transactions in texas). european regulation regulation of our markets in the european union and eea focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. at the end of 2012, new regulations relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions were adopted that will affect our clearinghouses in europe. as the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. nasdaq omx nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. the surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). the real-time trading surveillance for the finnish, icelandic, danish and swedish markets has been centralized to stockholm. in iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. in addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three baltic exchanges and at nasdaq omx oslo asa with respect to the trading of commodities derivatives. there are three surveillance committees at nasdaq omx nordic, one at each nasdaq omx nordic exchange in sweden, finland and denmark. these committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. in sweden and finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. in denmark and iceland, listing decisions are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of nasdaq omx copenhagen and nasdaq omx iceland, respectively. if there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in sweden and finland. in denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. in iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. the entities that operate trading venues in the nordic and baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. in sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by nasdaq omx stockholm is carried out by the sfsa, while nasdaq omx stockholm role as ccp in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the sfsa and the swedish central bank, riksbanken. additionally, as a function of the swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. nasdaq omx stockholm exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the swedish securities markets act 2007:528 (ssma), which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. the ssma also provides that any changes to the exchange articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the sfsa. in december 2012, the european commission adopted nine implementing technical standards to complement the obligations defined under the european markets infrastructure regulation (emir) which became effective in august 2012. as a consequence of emir, nasdaq omx stockholm and all european ccps will need to reauthorize their ccp operations. with respect to ongoing operations, the ssma requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. when operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. similar requirements are set up by the ssma and emir in relation to clearing operations. the ssma also contains the framework for both the sfsa supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. the latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange obligations. that requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. 18 table of contents the regulatory environment in the other nordic and baltic countries in which a nasdaq omx entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in sweden. since 2005, there has been a memorandum of understanding between the sfsa and the main supervisory authorities in norway, denmark and finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. employees as of december 31, 2012, nasdaq omx had 2,506 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. of the total employees, 1,123 were based in the u.s. and 1,383 were based outside of the u.s. none of our u.s. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. approximately 91 employees based in denmark and finland are covered by local union agreements. nasdaq omx website and availability of sec filings we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the public may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (such as us). the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. we will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our forms 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. to access these filings, go to nasdaq omx website and click on investor relations, then under financial information click on sec filings. we use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under regulation fd. item 1a. risk factors. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. risks relating to our business our industry is highly competitive. we face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. in addition, our market data, global index, corporate solutions and market technology businesses face significant competition from other market participants. this competition includes both product and price competition and has continued to increase as a result of the creation of new execution and listing venues in the united states and europe. increased competition may result in a decline in our share of trading activity, listings and the markets for the products we offer, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. the liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. as a result, both in the u.s. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. in the last several years, many marketplaces in both europe and the u.s. have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. the securities industry also has experienced consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. regulatory changes, such as mifid, also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the eu that compete with our european exchanges. the regulatory environment, both in the u.s. and in europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. in addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. we also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, atss, mtfs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. some of these competitors also are our customers. our exchange competitors include nyse euronext, lse, deutsche b&ouml;rse, the tokyo stock exchange, and a number of other exchanges in the u.s. and around the world. these exchanges offer a range of services comparable to those offered by our exchanges and generally compete with us in providing trade executions, trade reporting, market data, listings, regulation, index, and technology services. public atss in the u.s. and mtfs in europe are broker-dealer operated systems that offer trade execution services, typically at very low cost. our competitors include burgundy mtf 19 table of contents in the nordics. in london, two mtfs operated by bats (chi-x and bats) and the turquoise mtf operated by the lse offer pan-european execution services in competition with our nordic exchanges. other competing execution venues include broker-dealer owned systems such as dark-pools and internalization engines that may or may not be registered as atss or mtfs. like atss and mtfs, these venues also compete with us by offering low cost executions and differ from public atss and mtfs in the degree of transparency they offer and in restrictions on who may access these systems. competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. competitors may enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing or data businesses more competitive than ours. in december 2012, ice announced plans to acquire nyse euronext. the deal is expected to close in the second half of 2013, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. should the proposed transaction be completed, ice has indicated intent to spin off euronext via an ipo. this transaction has the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. if we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. the securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. we have in the past lowered prices, and in the u.s., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. these strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. we are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and mtfs. we also compete with respect to the pricing of market data and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. in the future, our competitors may offer rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. if we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions in both the u.s. and europe, market volatility, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. although access to credit markets has improved, a long-term continuation of challenging economic conditions, or a worsening situation in europe, is likely to negatively impact our business. adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. poor economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes, corporate solutions and market technology. trading volume is driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volume may affect our market share and impact our pricing. the number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. market data revenues also may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies, which could result in significant reductions in our market data professional user revenue. in addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market. a reduction in trading volumes, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies and a decline in market data revenue due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a decline in trading and clearing volume will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. trading and clearing volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. in recent years, trading and clearing volumes across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. current initiatives being considered by regulators and governments, such as restrictions on algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, could have a material adverse effect on overall trading and clearing volumes. because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes through our pricing. declines in trading and clearing volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 20 table of contents our market share of trading has declined and may continue to decline. our matched market share in nasdaq-listed securities executed on nasdaq declined from 46.1% in 2007 to 25.6% in 2012 and our combined matched market share in all u.s.-listed securities executed on all of our platforms declined from 29.1% in 2007 to 20.8% in 2012. in addition, as a result of the adoption of mifid, a number of mtfs have launched, thereby significantly increasing competition in europe. as a result, our matched market share in securities listed on our exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic has declined from 100% in 2007 to 68.7% in 2012. if our total market share in these securities continues to decrease relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. if growth in overall trading volume of these securities does not offset continued declines in our market share, or if our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing revenues. declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. finally, declines in market share of nasdaq-listed securities could lower nasdaq share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our market data business. we may experience losses and liabilities as a result of systems issues that arose during the facebook, inc. ipo. in connection with the ipo by facebook on may 18, 2012, systems issues were experienced at the opening of trading of facebook shares. certain of our members may have been disadvantaged by such systems issues, which have subsequently been remedied. we have announced a program for voluntary accommodations to qualifying members of up to $62 million, subject to approval by the sec. as a result of the systems issues, we have been sued by retail investors and trading firms in certain putative class actions, many of which have been consolidated into one action, asserting negligence claims and violations of rule 10b-5, promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as well as in four other lawsuits by individual investors. we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend them vigorously. in addition, the sec is conducting an investigation into the facebook matter, in which we are fully cooperating. while we are unable to predict the outcome of the pending litigation or the sec investigation, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. pending the resolution of these matters, we expect to incur significant additional expenses in defending the lawsuits, in connection with the sec investigation and in implementing technical changes and remedial measures which may be necessary or advisable. our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack or other security incidents. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss, fire, sabotage, terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. in february 2011, we announced that, through our normal security monitoring systems, we detected suspicious files on our u.s. servers. the files were immediately removed and there has been no evidence that any customer information was accessed or acquired by third parties. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume, incur significant liabilities or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we also could incur significant expense in addressing any of these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. system limitations or failures could harm our business. our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. if our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. these consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. our markets have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. if trading volumes increase unexpectedly, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. we do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. 21 table of contents while we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to adverse financial conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets have been subject to significant regulatory changes. moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis and market volatility. in june 2012, the sec approved a plan for finra and the national securities exchanges to institute a limit up-limit down system designed to reduce short-term volatility in equity trading by preventing trades in individual exchange-listed stocks from occurring outside of a specified price band. the plan is expected to be implemented in 2013 with the intention of replacing the single stock trading pauses currently in place. in july 2012, the sec voted to require national securities exchanges and finra to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (cat) to improve regulators ability to monitor trading activity. we are currently working with finra and the other national securities exchanges in developing a plan to create a consolidated audit trail. at the end of 2012, new regulations relating to ccp services and otc derivatives transactions were adopted that will affect our clearinghouses in europe. in addition, in the past two years, the sec has taken regulatory actions in connection with issues described in its 2010 concept release on market structure, as well as the events of the may 6, 2010 flash crash. in 2011, the sec implemented a new short sale restriction that triggers when a security declines 10% from its previous close and expanded its existing single stock trading pause to include all regulation nms securities. any potential rules concerning trading halts during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape and have a material impact on our business. during the coming year, it is likely that there will be additional changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate our businesses, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. the european parliament continues its review of mifid that could affect our operations in europe. in addition, actions on any of the specific regulatory issues currently under review in the u.s. and europe such as short selling, co-location, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, market halts, the market data business, derivatives clearing, market transparency, taxes on stock transactions, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain of our customers and other related proposals could have a material impact on our business. in the u.s., the cftc and sec also will continue to take actions to fully implement the dodd-frank act, a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package. our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. the sec, the sfsa and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could adversely impact the ability of our market participants to use our markets. regulatory changes by the sec, the sfsa or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on our markets. regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our revenue from proprietary market data products. regulatory and legal developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we earn from our proprietary market data products. in the u.s., we generally are required to seek approval from the sec for the fees that we charge for our market data products. in recent years, certain industry groups have objected to the ability of exchanges to charge for certain market data products. one industry challenge is currently pending in federal appeals court. an adverse ruling in this matter could cause the sec to more closely examine exchange market data fees. the sec also has authority to undertake such review at its own discretion. if such an examination is conducted, and the results are detrimental to our u.s. exchanges ability to charge for market data, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will be implemented, or their potential impact on our business. a determination by the sec, for example, to link market data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the market data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of market data fees could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. our european exchanges currently offer market data to customers on a non-discriminatory basis at a reasonable cost. future actions by the european commission or european court decisions could affect our ability to offer market data products in the same manner that we do today thereby causing an adverse effect on our european market data revenues. 22 table of contents we will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. we depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facilities, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. if we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. if we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. this may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. the market for initial public offerings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital, both of which have been severely tested in recent years. stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, and thus our related revenues. we recognize revenue from new listings on the nasdaq stock market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. as a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. a reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and our 5.25% senior notes due 2018 fluctuates based on our credit ratings. 23 table of contents the success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain electronic trading platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business, as well as by our customers. the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. for example, we must continue to enhance our electronic trading platforms to remain competitive, and our business will be negatively affected if our electronic trading platforms fail to function as expected. if we are unable to develop our electronic trading platforms to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. one of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; the representation of our business in the media; the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; the quality of our corporate governance structure; the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our global index group for indexes and unit investment trusts; the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; extreme price volatility on our markets, such as that seen with the flash crash on may 6, 2010; any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies; and any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. this, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may incur goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. as of december 31, 2012, goodwill totaled approximately $5.3 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.7 billion. the determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess goodwill and intangible assets as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets for impairment by applying a fair value based test by analyzing historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our 24 table of contents internal planning. there was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. however, disruptions to our business, such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results, may result in an impairment charge related to our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. a significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes; broad trends in industry and finance; changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; the level and volatility of interest rates; changes in government monetary or tax policy; other legislative and regulatory changes; the perceived attractiveness of the u.s. or european capital markets; and inflation. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes. additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. as a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. a substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. if actual revenue is below management expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. if this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we clear or stand as riskless principal to a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, energy-related commodity products and resale and repurchase agreements. we assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. we enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. no guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. we also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 25 table of contents our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. in connection with acquisitions and share repurchases, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2012 was approximately $2.0 billion. we also may borrow up to an additional $624 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities. our leverage could: reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. in addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and conduct transactions with affiliates. failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. if an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate all amounts outstanding. our credit facilities allow us to pay cash dividends on our common stock as long as certain leverage ratios are maintained. the regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. our business is subject to extensive regulation. under current u.s. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the sec. the sec may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. in addition, the sec may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we must compete not only with atss that are not subject to the same sec approval process but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. there is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. in addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the sec, finra and other self-regulatory organizations. these subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. the sec and finra impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. additionally, the uniform net capital rule and finra rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the sec and finra for certain withdrawals of capital. any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. our non-u.s. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges or central securities depositories. the countries in which we currently operate or share ownership in regulated businesses include sweden, finland, denmark, iceland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, norway, armenia, switzerland, the netherlands and the united kingdom. in all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. the authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. the authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities requirements. furthermore, we hold interests in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-u.s. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our european exchanges. the loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our european exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 26 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability. many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the u.s., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. in the u.s., we are subject to oversight by the sec, and our subsidiary nfx is subject to oversight by the cftc. our subsidiary nocc is regulated as a power marketer by the federal energy regulatory commission (for transactions in every state but texas) and the public utility commission of texas (for transactions in texas). in the case of non-compliance with our obligations under the securities, commodities or other laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. our non-u.s. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the european union level. implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. if a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked. some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, intellectual property, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. as we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may sustain losses that would affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. we have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. in the u.s., the sec staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of for-profit markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. although our u.s. cash equities and options exchanges outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to finra, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt sec scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. our nordic and baltic exchanges also monitor trading and compliance with listing standards. they monitor the listing of cash equities and other financial instruments. the prime objective of such monitoring activities is to promote confidence in the exchanges among the general public and to ensure fair and orderly functioning markets. the monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. the surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in these exchanges and to avoid conflicts of interest. any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the nordic and baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. there is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. in particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. we are highly dependent on the continued services of robert greifeld, our chief executive officer, and other senior officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. we do not have employment agreements with some of these key senior officers. we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our senior officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. the loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 27 table of contents failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. to protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. we have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the united states and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending u.s. and foreign applications for other trademarks. we also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. we also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions. effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. we rely on third parties for regulatory, data center and other services. for example, we have a contractual arrangement with finra pursuant to which finra performs certain regulatory functions on our behalf. we also are highly reliant on third-party data centers provided by verizon. to the extent that finra, verizon or any other vendor or third-party service provider experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. to the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. in december 2012, we entered into an agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses. the proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013. although we are confident in the ability to close this transaction, we cannot predict with certainty the timing, the resources that will be required and the conditions that will need to be implemented to complete this transaction. 28 table of contents we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. the issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. the issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. in addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; the diversion of our management team from its other operations; problems with regulatory bodies; exposure to unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and changes in our credit rating and financing costs. we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. we must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses. this process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. the difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate; unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods; inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in the u.s. and abroad, which may be conflicting; resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously; unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; the retention of key employees and management; the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-u.s. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, and u.s. securities laws and regulations, including the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the exchange act; the coordination of geographically separate organizations; the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; 29 table of contents pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. for these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions. any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. like other corporations, we are subject to taxes at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-u.s. jurisdictions. changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt. we cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. a successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. our non-u.s. business operates in various international markets, particularly emerging markets, that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. the operations of our non-u.s. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in iceland, the baltics, central and eastern europe, the middle east and asia. some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business. in our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. if we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk. we have operations in the u.s., the nordic and baltic countries, australia and many other foreign countries. we therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the euro, swedish krona, danish krone, norwegian krone, british pound sterling, australian dollar and other foreign currencies towards the u.s. dollar. significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. these exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-u.s. results of operations and financial condition into u.s. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. if our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. we have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by nasdaq omx risk committee, which is comprised of employees of nasdaq omx. however, these methods may not be fully effective. some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. if our methods are not effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. we are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. our financial results, including earnings per share, or eps, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by u.s. gaap including the following: 30 table of contents we may incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives; we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with u.s. gaap, as compared to book value as recorded; to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under u.s. gaap and u.s. dollars. risks relating to an investment in our common stock volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; conditions or trends in the credit markets; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and purchases or sales of our common stock, including purchases or sales of our common stock by our directors, officers, significant stockholders or strategic investors. decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. in 2012, our board of directors declared quarterly cash dividend payments of $0.13 per share of outstanding common stock paid in june, september and december. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by nasdaq omx board of directors. the board determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. as of december 31, 2012, there were 165,605,838 shares of our common stock outstanding. all of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our affiliates, as defined in rule 144 under the securities act. the number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to nasdaq omx equity incentive plan, or equity plan. there were 7,545,777 options exercisable as of december 31, 2012 at a weighted average exercise price of $21.10. 31 table of contents it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes due august 2013, or the 2013 convertible notes, in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. however, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. the conversion rate as of december 31, 2012, subject to adjustment due to certain events including cash dividends, is 18.4504 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $54.20 per share of common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address sec concerns) and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. the holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. any change to the 5% voting limitation would require sec approval. in response to the sec concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of our u.s. exchanges include a rule prohibiting any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. sec consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. the rules of our u.s. exchanges also require the sec approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. in general, delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.5% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. 41 table of contents the following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended december 31, 2012 when compared with the same period in 2011: revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased $19 million, or 1.1%, to $1,663 million in 2012, compared with $1,682 million in 2011, reflecting an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $27 million, partially offset by an operational increase in revenues of $8 million. the increase in operational revenues was primarily due to an: increase in issuer services revenues of $19 million, primarily from corporate solutions and global index group revenues; increase in access services revenues of $16 million; increase in market data revenues of $15 million, primarily from u.s. market data products; increase in other market services revenues of $11 million, primarily reflecting income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange; and an increase in market technology revenues of $7 million, primarily from delivery project and change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues, partially offset by a; decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $43 million; and a decrease in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $18 million. operating expenses decreased $13 million, or 1.3%, to $973 million in 2012, compared with $986 million in 2011, reflecting a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $4 million. the operational increase in operating expenses was primarily due to restructuring actions taken during 2012 and increased professional and contract services expense, partially offset by decreased merger and strategic initiatives expense and general, administrative and other expense. interest expense decreased $22 million, or 18.5%, to $97 million in 2012, compared with $119 million in 2011, primarily due to lower average outstanding debt obligations and lower interest rates in 2012. in 2012, asset impairment charges of $40 million were related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in emcf. the asset impairment charge in 2011 of $18 million was due to an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm. in 2012, we sold idcg and recorded a loss of $14 million. see 2012 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, for further discussion. income tax provision increased $9 million, or 4.7%, in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., as well as a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses. these current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below. 2013 outlook for the fifth year in a row, more share value traded on the nasdaq stock market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. however, 2012 presented a challenging economic environment with uncertainty in europe and a continuing debate over future fiscal policy in the u.s. by traditional measures, it was also a difficult year for the exchange business. after reaching an all-time high in 2009, u.s. cash equity trading volume fell for a third consecutive year. for the last five years, trading volume in the u.s. and around the world has been driven by volatility associated with the global financial crisis, rather than the prospects for economic growth. while the worst of the financial crisis may be behind us, robust economic growth has yet to develop. consequently, nasdaq omx has intentionally structured its organization to account for the highly cyclical nature of our industry. by diversifying our earnings through the sale of corporate solutions, access services, market technology and market data and by delivering on cost savings, nasdaq omx has been able to provide stable revenues and operating income during these tough conditions. should 2013 present an equally difficult environment, we believe our organization is positioned to succeed. 42 table of contents we launched several important initiatives during 2012 that we expect to benefit us during the challenging and competitive economic environment anticipated for 2013. these new initiatives include the launch of the nasdaq omx bx options market, our third options platform which allows us to support multiple allocation and priority models. the standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform that offers strong performance to both existing and new clients, while creating additional sales opportunities for both our transactions services and market data businesses. in addition, our corporate solutions business continued to have solid revenue growth, driven by the acquisitions of a majority interest in bwise in may 2012 and glide technologies in october 2011 and growth in our shareholder.com and globenewswire products. in december 2012, we entered into an agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses. upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our corporate solutions business. the proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013. we continue to leverage the opportunities in our corporate solutions business by offering new products to our expanding customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers. during 2012, the u.s. ipo market continued its recovery from the impact of the 2008 financial crisis. in april 2012, president obama signed into law the jumpstart our business startups act, or jobs act, which is intended to encourage companies to seek access to public capital through an ipo. the long-term effects of the bill remain to be seen, but the overall increase in ipos compared to 2011 despite global economic uncertainty is a positive signal when looking ahead to 2013. we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the gradual return of global economic growth to support increases in the number of ipos. furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital is expected to add to the ipo pipeline in 2013. during 2013, we expect to confront changes in both the competitive and regulatory environments. in december 2012, ice announced plans to acquire nyse euronext. the deal is expected to close in the second half of 2013, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. should the proposed transaction be completed, ice has indicated its intent to spin off euronext via an ipo. this acquisition has the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the u.s. and europe. european regulators are currently considering a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. also, european regulations governing clearinghouses will be implemented in 2013, impacting our clearing business in the nordics. we expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2013, driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and europe. we expect that cash equities markets will continue to fragment into additional venues, and trading will continue to migrate from exchanges to otc systems. conversely, trading in otc derivatives will begin to move onto exchanges and other public execution facilities. we expect it is likely that the year ahead will be positive for our business drivers and our operations as the global economy continues to recover. we believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2013. we will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses. business segments prior to january 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our products and services in three business segments: market services, issuer services and market technology. market services our market services segment includes our u.s. and european transaction services businesses, which include access services, as well as our market data and broker services businesses. we offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and etfs. in addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services. issuer services in 2012, our issuer services segment included our global listing services and global index group businesses. we offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing approximately $6.2 trillion in total market value as of december 31, 2012. we operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. our main listing markets are the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. we offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing 43 table of contents on the nasdaq stock market and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq dubai. in addition, through our corporate solutions business, we offer companies access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. market technology our market technology business is the world leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. our technology business also is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the u.s., europe and asia to smaller african markets. furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. see note 19, business segments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. as announced in january 2013, we realigned our reportable segments as a result of changes to the organizational structure of our businesses. see note 20, subsequent event, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. sources of revenues and cost of revenues market services revenues transaction services u.s. cash equity trading u.s. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. we charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in nasdaq-listed and other listed securities on our cash equities exchanges as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. in the u.s., we record execution revenues from transactions on a gross basis in revenues and record related expenses as cost of revenues. for the nasdaq stock market and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. we record these credits as transaction rebates that are included in cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. these transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. we pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. we collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx platforms, and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when incurred. section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the sec is remitted semiannually and recorded as section 31 fees payable to the sec in the consolidated balance sheets until paid. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. as we hold the cash received until payment to the sec, we earn interest income on the related cash balances. european cash equity trading we charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic. these transaction fees are charged per executed order and as per value traded. the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. u.s. derivative trading and clearing u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded on nasdaq omx phlx, the nasdaq options market and nasdaq omx bx options are equity options, etf options, index options and currency options. we also operate nfx, which offers trading of futures contracts on spot gold. 44 table of contents similar to u.s. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of income. also, we pay section 31 fees to the sec for supervision and regulation of securities markets. see u.s. cash equity trading above for further discussion. we engage in riskless principal trading and clearing of otc power and gas contracts through our subsidiary nocc. revenues are based on notional amounts or volume of power and gas transacted and/or delivered and are recognized upon settlement of the contracts. european derivative trading and clearing european derivative trading and clearing revenues received from transactions conducted on nasdaq omx stockholm are variable, based on the volume and value of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. the principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, and index options and futures by serving as the ccp. in doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. we also act as the counterparty for certain otc contracts. on nasdaq omx stockholm, we also offer clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. clearing revenues for resale and repurchase agreements are based on the value and length of the contract and are recognized when cleared. nasdaq omx commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives, carbon and other commodities products. our trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on volume and the value of the contract cleared. revenues are recognized when contracts are traded or cleared. we also generate clearing revenues for contracts traded on the otc derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared. in addition, nasdaq omx commodities members are billed an annual fee in january which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. european derivative trading and clearing revenues include revenues from nos clearing which we acquired in july 2012. nos clearing is a leading norway-based clearinghouse primarily for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. nasdaq omx commodities and the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. access services we generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. the type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. as a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. we provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. these participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. we also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. access services revenues also include revenues from ften, which we acquired in december 2010. ften is a leading provider of rtrm solutions for the financial securities market. as a market leader in rtrm, ften provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. revenues for ften services are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers and are recognized when an arrangement exists, services are delivered to the customer, the selling price of the services to be provided under the arrangement is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. most contracts include professional services, implementation fees, monthly subscription fees from customers accessing on-demand services, and customer support. implementation fees are recognized upon completion of the implementation. monthly professional services, subscription, and usage fees are recognized in the month the service is provided. market data market data revenues are earned from u.s. tape plans and u.s. and european proprietary market data products. 45 table of contents net u.s. tape plans revenues from u.s. tape plans include eligible utp plan revenues that are shared among utp plan participants and are presented on a net basis. under the revenue sharing provision of the utp plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive securities information processor from the total amount of tape revenues collected. after these costs are deducted from the tape revenues, we distribute to the respective utp plan participants, including the nasdaq stock market, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by regulation nms, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. in addition, all quotes and trades in nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on nyse- and nyse mkt-listed securities. revenues from net u.s. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis. u.s. market data products we collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data, as well as select third-party content. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. we earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. u.s. market data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. these revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants. european market data products european market data revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic, as well as nasdaq omx commodities, for the following classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. we provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. revenues from european market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis. broker services our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the nordic market. the primary services offered are flexible back-office systems which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company back-office functions. revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. broker services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. issuer services revenues global listing services u.s. listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. european listing services european listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on our nordic and baltic exchanges and nasdaq omx first north, are directly related to the listed companies market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. these revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. corporate solutions global listing services revenues also include fees from corporate solutions. revenues primarily include subscription income from shareholder.com, directors desk and glide technologies, fees from globenewswire and zvm, and license, maintenance and professional service fees from bwise. fee income for services is recognized as those services are provided. shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. as part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. directors desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. 46 table of contents glide technologies revenues are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers and are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. globenewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. zvm generates revenues from webcasting services and revenues are recognized as services are provided. bwise revenues are primarily based on license, maintenance and service agreements with customers. license and maintenance agreements are generally one year in length and revenues are recognized over the contract period. professional service revenues are recognized as the services are performed. global index group we develop and license nasdaq omx branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our global index group business. revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the u.s. and abroad. we also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored etfs. we primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. if a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. if a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. asset-based licenses are also generally long-term agreements. customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. these revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement. market technology revenues market technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services. revenues are primarily derived from license, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or vsoe, of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. change request revenues include customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solution sold by nasdaq omx after delivery has occurred. change request revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. advisory services are designed to support our customers strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. advisory services revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. broker surveillance revenues are derived from surveillance solutions targeting brokers and regulators throughout the world. broker surveillance revenues are subscription based and are recognized in revenue when earned. 47 table of contents nasdaq omx operating results key drivers the following table includes key drivers for our market services, issuer services, and market technology segments. in evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers. year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 market services cash equity trading nasdaq securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 1.75 2.02 2.19 matched market share executed on nasdaq 25.6 % 27.7 % 28.6 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.7 % 2.1 % 2.9 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.4 % 1.1 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 32.3 % 30.9 % 35.5 % total market share (1) 62.0 % 61.7 % 67.1 % nyse securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 3.64 4.34 4.83 matched market share executed on nasdaq 12.9 % 13.4 % 13.7 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.6 % 2.3 % 3.6 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 29.8 % 27.7 % 31.3 % total market share (1) 46.0 % 44.0 % 48.7 % nyse mkt and regional securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 1.05 1.47 1.45 matched market share executed on nasdaq 17.0 % 18.7 % 20.7 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.8 % 1.9 % 3.1 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.9 % 1.8 % 0.1 % market share reported to the finra/nasdaq trade reporting facility 29.3 % 25.9 % 28.7 % total market share (1) 51.0 % 48.3 % 52.6 % total u.s.-listed securities total average daily share volume (in billions) 6.44 7.84 8.47 matched share volume (in billions) 334.1 419.6 475.0 matched market share executed on nasdaq 17.0 % 18.1 % 18.8 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx bx 2.7 % 2.1 % 3.3 % matched market share executed on nasdaq omx psx 1.1 % 1.0 % 0.1 % total market share 20.8 % 21.2 % 22.2 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic securities average daily number of equity trades 324,322 370,295 284,840 total average daily value of shares traded (in billions) $ 3.9 $ 5.1 $ 4.3 total market share 68.7 % 73.1 % 76.5 % derivative trading and clearing u.s. equity options total industry average daily volume (in millions) 14.7 16.8 14.3 nasdaq omx phlx matched market share 21.3 % 23.1 % 23.4 % the nasdaq options market matched market share 5.5 % 4.6 % 4.0 % nasdaq omx bx options matched market share 0.4 % nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic average daily volume: options, futures and fixed-income contracts 412,841 458,547 428,523 finnish option contracts traded on eurex 85,022 99,394 117,450 nasdaq omx commodities clearing turnover: power contracts (twh) (2) 1,703 1,747 2,108 carbon contracts (1000 tco2) (2) 50,375 61,569 31,500 48 table of contents year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 issuer services initial public offerings: nasdaq 72 78 89 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic 6 9 11 new listings: nasdaq (3) 158 151 195 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (4) 18 34 25 number of listed companies: nasdaq (5) 2,577 2,680 2,778 exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic (6) 754 776 780 market technology order intake (in millions) (7) $ 259 $ 134 $ 160 total order value (in millions) (8) $ 546 $ 458 $ 495 (1) includes transactions executed on nasdaq s, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx systems plus trades reported through the finra/nasdaq trf. (2) primarily transactions executed on nord pool and reported for clearing to nasdaq omx commodities measured by twh and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tco2). (3) new listings include ipos, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed etfs. (4) new listings include ipos and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north. (5) number of listed companies for nasdaq at period end, including separately listed etfs. (6) represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic and companies on the alternative markets of nasdaq omx first north at period end. (7) total contract value of orders signed during the period. (8) represents total contract value of signed orders that are yet to be recognized as revenue. market technology deferred revenue, as discussed in note 8, deferred revenue to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. segment operating results of our total 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,663 million, 66.4% was from our market services segment, 22.5% was from our issuer services segment and 11.1% was from our market technology segment. of our total 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,682 million, 67.6% was from our market services segment, 21.5% was from our issuer services segment and 10.9% was from our market technology segment. of our total 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,516 million, 67.6% was from our market services segment, 22.3% was from our issuer services segment, 10.0% was from our market technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. the following table shows our revenues by segment, cost of revenues for our market services segment and total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) market services $ 2,560 $ 2,886 $ 2,700 (11.3 )% 6.9 % cost of revenues (1,456 ) (1,748 ) (1,675 ) (16.7 )% 4.4 % market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 1,104 1,138 1,025 (3.0 )% 11.0 % issuer services 375 361 338 3.9 % 6.8 % market technology 184 183 152 0.5 % 20.4 % other 1 # total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,663 $ 1,682 $ 1,516 (1.1 )% 10.9 % # denotes a variance equal to 100.0%. 49 table of contents market services the following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our market services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) transaction services cash equity trading revenues: u.s. cash equity trading (1) $ 1,294 $ 1,617 $ 1,600 (20.0 )% 1.1 % cost of revenues: transaction rebates (854 ) (1,087 ) (1,094 ) (21.4 )% (0.6 )% brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (1) (318 ) (375 ) (341 ) (15.2 )% 10.0 % total u.s. cash equity cost of revenues (1,172 ) (1,462 ) (1,435 ) (19.8 )% 1.9 % u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 122 155 165 (21.3 )% (6.1 )% european cash equity trading 78 93 90 (16.1 )% 3.3 % total cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 200 248 255 (19.4 )% (2.7 )% derivative trading and clearing revenues: u.s. derivative trading and clearing (2) 458 471 390 (2.8 )% 20.8 % cost of revenues: transaction rebates (250 ) (257 ) (218 ) (2.7 )% 17.9 % brokerage, clearance and exchange fees (2) (34 ) (29 ) (22 ) 17.2 % 31.8 % total u.s. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues (284 ) (286 ) (240 ) (0.7 )% 19.2 % u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 174 185 150 (5.9 )% 23.3 % european derivative trading and clearing 116 128 115 (9.4 )% 11.3 % total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 290 313 265 (7.3 )% 18.1 % access services revenues 238 223 173 6.7 % 28.9 % total transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 728 784 693 (7.1 )% 13.1 % market data revenues: net u.s. tape plans 117 115 117 1.7 % (1.7 )% u.s. market data products 150 135 126 11.1 % 7.1 % european market data products 77 83 70 (7.2 )% 18.6 % total market data revenues 344 333 313 3.3 % 6.4 % broker services revenues 19 19 15 26.7 % other market services revenues 13 2 4 # (50.0 )% total market services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ 1,104 $ 1,138 $ 1,025 (3.0 )% 11.0 % # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. (1) includes section 31 fees of $277 million in 2012, $304 million in 2011 and $252 million in 2010. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. (2) includes section 31 fees of $32 million in 2012, $26 million in 2011 and $19 million in 2010. section 31 fees are recorded as u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues. 50 table of contents transaction services transaction services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance, and exchange fees, a decline in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million. partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in access services revenues. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. the increase in 2011 was partially offset by lower cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. u.s. cash equity trading revenues u.s. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2012 compared to 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the decreases were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in our matched market share. the decrease in 2011 was partially offset by modified rates. u.s. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes, a decline in our matched market share, and a decrease in section 31 pass-through fee revenues. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fee revenues and modified rates, partially offset by a decline in industry trading volumes and a decline in our matched market share. we record section 31 fees as u.s. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the sec, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of shares traded. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $277 million in 2012, $304 million in 2011 and $252 million in 2010. the decrease in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems, partially offset by higher pass-through fee rates. the increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to higher pass-through fee rates in 2011, partially offset by lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems. for nasdaq and nasdaq omx psx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for nasdaq omx bx, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. these transaction rebates decreased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. the decrease in 2011 was primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes and our matched market share, partially offset by higher average rebate rates due to changes in our pricing program on the nasdaq, nasdaq omx bx and nasdaq omx psx trading systems. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees, partially offset by a decrease in the amount of volume routed by nasdaq due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. european cash equity trading revenues european cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the nasdaq omx nordic and nasdaq omx baltic exchanges. european cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in trading activity and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million, partially offset by a decrease in trading activity. u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues both the u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decreases in 2012 were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in market share on the nasdaq omx phlx market, partially offset by increases in revenue capture per traded contract, increases in market share on the nasdaq options market and the inclusion of the nasdaq omx bx options market, launched in june 2012. the increases in 2011 were primarily due to increases in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. the increase in u.s. derivative trading and clearing revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was also due to higher section 31 pass-through fee revenues as discussed below. 51 table of contents similar to u.s. cash equity trading, section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. we are assessed these fees from the sec and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. section 31 fees were $32 million in 2012, $26 million in 2011 and $19 million 2010. the increase in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher pass-through fee rates, partially offset by a decrease in industry trading volumes. the increase in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due an increase in industry trading volumes and higher pass-through fee rates. transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in industry trading volumes and a decrease in market share, partially offset by an increase in transaction capture rate. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increases in industry trading volumes and market share. brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increases were primarily due to an increase in section 31 pass-through fees. european derivative trading and clearing revenues european derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on nasdaq omx stockholm, clearing revenues from resale and repurchase agreements on nasdaq omx nordic clearing and revenues from nasdaq omx commodities. beginning in july 2012, revenues from nasdaq omx commodities includes revenues from nos clearing for otc traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market. beginning in may 2010, revenues from nasdaq omx commodities includes trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products from nord pool. european derivative trading and clearing revenues decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to lower trading activity for index options and futures contracts and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $11 million, partially offset by lower trading activity in energy products. the following table shows revenues from european derivative trading and clearing: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) european derivative trading and clearing revenues: options and futures contracts $ 43 $ 55 $ 49 (21.8 )% 12.2 % energy carbon and other commodity products 46 45 41 2.2 % 9.8 % fixed-income products 22 22 18 22.2 % other revenues and fees 5 6 7 (16.7 )% (14.3 )% total european derivative trading and clearing revenues $ 116 $ 128 $ 115 (9.4 )% 11.3 % access services revenues access services revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased demand for services and revenues from new products. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in revenues from ften, which was acquired in december 2010, and increased demand for services. market data market data revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increases in u.s. market data products revenues and net u.s. tape plans revenues, partially offset by a decline in european market data products revenues. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increases in u.s. and european market data products revenues and a favorable impact from foreign exchange, partially offset by a decrease in net u.s. tape plans revenues. net u.s. tape plans revenues the increase in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to an increase in our quoting market share. the decline in net u.s. tape plans revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to lower plan shareable revenues and declines in nasdaq trading and quoting market share of u.s. cash equities, as calculated under the sec-mandated market data revenue quoting and trading formula. 52 table of contents u.s. market data products revenues the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to higher customer demand for proprietary data products and pricing changes. the increase in u.s. market data products revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to higher customer demand for proprietary data products, mainly index data, and higher audit collections. european market data products revenues the decrease in european market data products in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million and a decline in user populations. the increase in european market data products revenues in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to modified fees for market data products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. broker services broker services revenues were flat in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to new customers and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. other market services the increase in other market services revenues in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange. issuer services the following table shows revenues from our issuer services segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) global listing services revenues: annual renewal $ 112 $ 117 $ 113 (4.3 )% 3.5 % listing of additional shares 39 40 39 (2.5 )% 2.6 % initial listing 20 21 22 (4.8 )% (4.5 )% total u.s. listing services 171 178 174 (3.9 )% 2.3 % european listing services 50 55 51 (9.1 )% 7.8 % corporate solutions 97 76 66 27.6 % 15.2 % total global listing services revenues 318 309 291 2.9 % 6.2 % global index group revenues 57 52 47 9.6 % 10.6 % total issuer services revenues $ 375 $ 361 $ 338 3.9 % 6.8 % global listing services global listing services revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in corporate solutions revenues, partially offset by decreases in total u.s. listing services and european listing services revenues. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in corporate solutions revenues. the decrease in total u.s. listing services revenues in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to a decrease in annual renewal revenues resulting from a decline in the number of listed companies from 2,680 as of december 31, 2011 to 2,577 as of december 31, 2012. european listing services revenues decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million, as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 776 as of december 31, 2011 to 754 as of december 31, 2012. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. corporate solutions revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to revenues from bwise, which was acquired in may 2012, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011, as well as expanded customer utilization of globenewswire, shareholder.com and directors desk products, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to expanding customer utilization of shareholder.com, directors desk and globenewswire products, as well as revenues from zvm, which was acquired in december 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011. 53 table of contents global index group revenues global index group revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses, partially offset by lower futures and options volumes. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the underlying assets associated with nasdaq omx-licensed etfs, as well as additional demand for new licensed etfs and other financial products, partially offset by lower futures and options volumes. market technology the following table shows revenues from our market technology segment: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) market technology: license, support and facility management $ 110 $ 115 $ 103 (4.3 )% 11.7 % delivery project 27 24 17 12.5 % 41.2 % change request, advisory and broker surveillance 47 44 32 6.8 % 37.5 % total market technology revenues $ 184 $ 183 $ 152 0.5 % 20.4 % market technology revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to operational increases in delivery project revenues and change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $18 million, as well as operational increases in change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues and delivery project revenues. license, support and facility management revenues license, support and facility management revenues decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million. delivery project revenues delivery project revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues in the current period, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues in 2011, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. delivery project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are typically deferred until the customization and any significant modifications are completed and are then recognized over the post contract support period. change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in broker surveillance revenues resulting from increased customer demand, partially offset by a decrease in change request and advisory revenues. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in broker surveillance revenues resulting from our acquisition of smarts in august 2010 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. 54 table of contents total order value as of december 31, 2012, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $546 million. market technology deferred revenue of $149 million, which is included in this amount, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. see note 8, deferred revenue, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. as such, the following table of market technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate: total order value (in millions) fiscal year ended: 2013 $ 157 2014 129 2015 94 2016 72 2017 51 2018 and thereafter 43 total $ 546 expenses operating expenses the following table shows our operating expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) compensation and benefits $ 454 $ 458 $ 412 (0.9 )% 11.2 % marketing and advertising 26 24 20 8.3 % 20.0 % depreciation and amortization 104 109 103 (4.6 )% 5.8 % professional and contract services 96 83 72 15.7 % 15.3 % computer operations and data communications 60 65 58 (7.7 )% 12.1 % occupancy 93 91 88 2.2 % 3.4 % regulatory 34 35 35 (2.9 )% merger and strategic initiatives 4 38 4 (89.5 )% # restructuring charges 44 # general, administrative and other 58 83 93 (30.1 )% (10.8 )% total operating expenses $ 973 $ 986 $ 885 (1.3 )% 11.4 % # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. total operating expenses decreased $13 million in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased $101 million in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 reflects a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $4 million. the increase in 2011 reflects an operational increase of $67 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $34 million. the operational increase of $4 million in 2012 was primarily due to restructuring actions taken during 2012 and an increase in professional and contract services expense, partially offset by decreases in merger and strategic initiatives expense and general, administrative and other expense. the operational increase of $67 million in 2011 was primarily due to increases in merger and strategic initiatives expense, compensation and benefits expense, professional and contract services expense, marketing and advertising expense and computer operations and data communications expense, partially offset by a decrease in general, administrative and other expense. compensation and benefits expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million and lower compensation expense reflecting reduced financial performance and restructuring activities, partially offset by an increase in salary expense, primarily due to our acquisitions of glide technologies in october 2011, bwise in may 2012 and nos clearing in july 2012. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in salary expense from smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011, and higher compensation expenses reflecting stronger financial 55 table of contents performance, as well as an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million. headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 2,506 employees at december 31, 2012 from 2,433 employees at december 31, 2011 and 2,395 employees at december 31, 2010. the increase in headcount in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to our acquisition of bwise, partially offset by workforce reductions of 226 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions in 2012. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges incurred in 2012. the increase in headcount in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to our acquisition of glide technologies in october 2011. marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased brand advertising primarily featuring listed issuers. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to the write-off of certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), the write-off and disposal of leasehold improvements, asset impairments related to restructuring activities, primarily consisting of fixed assets and capitalized software which have been retired, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by additional depreciation and amortization expense as a result of our recent acquisitions, primarily bwise in may 2012. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million, as well as additional depreciation and amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions of smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and glide technologies, which was acquired in october 2011. professional and contract services expense increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to costs incurred for special legal expenses, as well as incremental spending for professional and contract services, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to costs incurred for information technology security consultants and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. computer operations and data communications expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a value added tax, or vat, refund relating to prior periods and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million, partially offset by additional computer operations and data communications expense as a result of our recent acquisitions, primarily glide technologies in october 2011 and bwise in may 2012. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to our acquisitions of smarts, ften and zvm, which were acquired in the second half of 2010, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. occupancy expense increased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2012 was primarily due to additional occupancy expense as a result of our recent acquisitions, primarily bwise in may 2012, as well as a $3 million sublease loss reserve charge on space we currently occupy due to an increase in net rental costs, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. merger and strategic initiatives expense was $4 million in 2012 compared with $38 million in 2011 and $4 million in 2010. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2012 primarily related to our agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses and costs related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, partially offset by a gain on our acquisition of nos clearing in july 2012. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2011 primarily related to costs incurred for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to our acquisition of glide technologies in october 2011. merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2010 included legal and consulting costs related to our acquisitions of smarts and ften and costs related to strategic initiatives. restructuring charges were $44 million in 2012. see note 3, restructuring charges, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2012. cash expenditures for severance and other charges necessary to execute our restructuring actions were $20 million in 2012. such expenditures, primarily for severance and other charges, have been funded with operating cash flows. we generated pre-tax savings of approximately $60 million in 2012 from our restructuring actions, and we expect an annualized savings of $60 million beginning in 2013. general, administrative and other expense decreased in both 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. in 2011, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $25 million related to the write-off of a portion of the unamortized balance of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to the repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2013 convertible notes that was completed in october 2011, and a pre-tax charge of $6 million recorded in 2011 related to the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs related to our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility that was repaid in 56 table of contents september 2011. general, administrative and other expense included a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million in 2012 and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2011. general, administrative and other expense for 2010 included a pre-tax charge of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs of $28 million incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million. non-operating income and expenses the following table shows our non-operating income and expenses: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (in millions) interest income $ 10 $ 11 $ 9 (9.1 )% 22.2 % interest expense (97 ) (119 ) (102 ) (18.5 )% 16.7 % net interest expense (87 ) (108 ) (93 ) (19.4 )% 16.1 % asset impairment charges (40 ) (18 ) # # dividend and investment income 1 (3 ) # # loss on divestiture of businesses (14 ) (11 ) # # income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net (1 ) 2 2 # total non-operating expenses $ (142 ) $ (123 ) $ (105 ) 15.4 % 17.1 % # denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%. total non-operating expenses were $142 million in 2012 compared with $123 million in 2011 and $105 million in 2010. total non-operating expenses for 2012 primarily include net interest expense of $87 million, asset impairment charges of $40 million and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. total non-operating expenses for 2011 primarily include net interest expense of $108 million and an impairment charge of $18 million on our investment security in dfm. total non-operating expenses for 2010 primarily include net interest expense and a pre-tax loss on divesture of businesses. interest income interest income decreased slightly in 2012 compared with 2011 and increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents in 2012. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents in 2011 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. interest expense interest expense for 2012 was $97 million, and was comprised of $86 million of interest expense, $4 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2012 primarily resulting from the extinguishment of $335 million of our 2013 convertible notes in the fourth quarter of 2011, as well as lower average interest rates. interest expense for 2011 was $119 million, and was comprised of $97 million of interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $6 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $3 million of other bank and investment-related fees. interest expense increased in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to higher average outstanding debt obligations in 2011 resulting from the issuance of our 2018 notes in december 2010. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. asset impairment charges in the second quarter of 2012, we recorded non-cash intangible asset impairment charges totaling $28 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million) and a certain trade name ($3 million). see intangible asset impairment charges, of note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the first quarter of 2012, we also recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in emcf. see equity method investments, of note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 57 table of contents in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm. as of december 31, 2011, the cost basis of this investment security was $36 million and the fair value was $18 million. we reviewed the carrying amount of this investment security to determine whether an other-than-temporary decline in value existed as of december 31, 2011. we considered factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general market trends. we also considered the length of time the market value had been below the carrying amount and the near-term prospects for recovery of unrealized losses. based on this review, we determined that the decline in value of this security below its carrying amount was other than temporary and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in the $18 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge. dividend and investment income dividend and investment income increased in 2011 compared with 2010. the increase in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio as a result of decreased interest rates. loss on divestiture of businesses in august 2012, we sold idcg and recorded a loss of $14 million. see 2012 divestiture, of note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, for further discussion. the loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million in 2010 was due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro ($6 million) and agora-x ($5 million) in the second quarter of 2010. income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net net loss from unconsolidated investees of $1 million in 2012 and net income of $2 million in both 2011 and 2010 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. income taxes nasdaq omx income tax provision was $199 million in 2012 compared with $190 million in 2011 and $137 million in 2010. the overall effective tax rate was 36.3% in 2012, 33.2% in 2011 and 26.0% in 2010. the higher effective tax rate in 2012 when compared to 2011 was primarily due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., adjustments related to our 2005 2011 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision and a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses. these increases are partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings. the increase in the effective tax rate in 2011 when compared with 2010 was due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where nasdaq omx operates. furthermore, in the third quarter of 2011, we recorded significant adjustments due to provision-to-tax return adjustments related to our 2010 tax return liabilities and a corresponding effect on deferred tax liabilities both which increased nasdaq omx tax provision in 2011. also, 2010 results included reductions in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate and a tax deduction for a capital loss. the effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. these same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets. in order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. nasdaq omx and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-u.s. income tax returns. federal income tax returns for the years 2007 through 2010 are currently under audit by the internal revenue service and we are subject to examination for 2011. several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2005 through 2010 and we are subject to examination for 2011. non-u.s. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for the years 2005 through 2011. in 2012, we settled audits with the state of new york and paid a total of $10 million with respect to the years 2000 through 2006. of the $10 million paid, $5 million relates to tax and $5 million relates to interest. since we included $2 million in our unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2011, $3 million affected our 2012 effective tax rate. the outcome of this audit did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. we anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2012 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. the final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. we anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 58 table of contents in the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the finnish tax authority challenging certain interest expense deductions claimed by nasdaq omx in finland for the year 2008. the appeal also demands certain penalties be paid with regard to the company tax return filing position. in october 2012, the finnish appeals board disagreed with the company tax return filing position, even though the tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the finnish tax authority. nasdaq omx has decided to appeal the ruling by the finnish appeals board to the finnish administrative court. if the finnish administrative court agrees with the finnish appeals board, additional tax and penalties for the years 2008 through 2012 would total approximately $20 million. we expect the finnish administrative court to agree with our position and, as such, believe it is unlikely nasdaq omx will be assessed any additional tax and penalties. through december 31, 2012, we have recorded the tax benefits associated with the filing position. net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $3 million in 2012 compared with $4 million in 2011 and $6 million in 2010. the losses are primarily attributable to noncontrolling interests in idcg. non-gaap financial measures in addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we also have provided non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share. management uses this non-gaap information internally, along with u.s. gaap information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. we believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. these measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, u.s. gaap, and may be different from non-gaap measures used by other companies. investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. we recommend investors review the u.s. gaap financial measures included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. when viewed in conjunction with our u.s. gaap results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-gaap measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than u.s. gaap measures alone. our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. we understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-gaap financial measures, such as non-gaap net income and non-gaap diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. we use non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and non-gaap diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on u.s. gaap financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to nasdaq omx for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions, other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. we do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our normal operating performance. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily related to the following: (i) income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange of $11 million, (ii) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $4 million related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, net of gain on acquisition of nos clearing, (iii) restructuring charges of $44 million related to workforce reductions of $23 million, facilities-related charges of $10 million, asset impairment charges of $9 million and $2 million of other charges, (iv) intangible asset impairment charges of $40 million related to certain acquired intangible assets totaling $28 million as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to our equity method interest in emcf of $12 million, (v) a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million related to the sale of idcg, (vi) special legal expenses of $7 million, (vii) a sublease loss reserve charge of $3 million recorded on space we currently occupy due to an increase in rental costs, (viii) a vat refund of $7 million relating to prior periods, (ix) adjustment to the income tax provision of $32 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (x) significant tax adjustments, net of $14 million due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the u.s. and outside the u.s., adjustments related to our 2005 2011 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision, partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings. 59 table of contents non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $38 million, primarily costs for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services, related to our joint proposal to acquire nyse euronext, as well as costs related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, (ii) an asset impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in dfm, (iii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges of $31 million, related to the repayment of the 2013 convertible notes and the repayment of our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility, (iv) an adjustment to the income tax provision of $28 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (v) significant tax adjustments, net of $5 million due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where nasdaq omx operates. non-gaap adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2010 primarily related to the following: (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $4 million, consisting primarily of costs for legal and consulting related to our acquisitions of smarts and ften, (ii) a loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million due to our decision to close the businesses of both neuro ($6 million) and agora-x ($5 million), (iii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges of $40 million related to the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of december 31, 2009, (iv) a sublease loss reserve charge of $5 million recorded on space we occupy in philadelphia, san francisco and london due to our decision to vacate space in these properties, (v) asset retirement charges of $2 million primarily related to obsolete technology, (vi) workforce reduction costs of $9 million related to acquisitions, (vii) an adjustment to the income tax provision of $28 million to reflect these non-gaap adjustments, and (viii) significant tax adjustments, net of $32 million due to provision-to-tax return adjustments related to our 2009 tax return liabilities. the following table represents reconciliations between u.s. gaap net income and diluted earnings per share and non-gaap net income and diluted earnings per share: year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share net income diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts) u.s. gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 352 $ 2.04 $ 387 $ 2.15 $ 395 $ 1.91 non-gaap adjustments: income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange (11 ) (0.06 ) merger and strategic initiatives 4 0.02 38 0.21 4 0.02 restructuring charges 44 0.26 asset impairment charges 40 0.23 18 0.10 loss on divestiture of businesses 14 0.08 11 0.05 special legal expenses 7 0.04 extinguishment of debt 31 0.17 40 0.20 sublease reserves 3 0.02 5 0.03 asset retirements 2 0.01 workforce reductions 9 0.04 vat refund (7 ) (0.04 ) other 4 0.02 4 0.03 5 0.02 adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect non-gaap adjustments (1) (32 ) (0.19 ) (28 ) (0.16 ) (28 ) (0.14 ) significant tax adjustments, net 14 0.08 5 0.03 (32 ) (0.15 ) total non-gaap adjustments, net of tax 80 0.46 68 0.38 16 0.08 non-gaap net income attributable to nasdaq omx and diluted earnings per share $ 432 $ 2.50 $ 455 $ 2.53 $ 411 $ 1.99 weighted-average common shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 172,587,870 180,011,247 206,514,655 (1) we determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. 60 table of contents liquidity and capital resources while global markets and economic conditions continue to improve from adverse levels experienced during the past several years, investors and lenders remain cautious about the pace of the global economic recovery. this lack of confidence in the prospects for growth could result in sporadic increases in market volatility and lackluster trading volumes, which could in turn affect our ability to obtain additional funding from lenders. currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. in addition to these cash sources, we have a $750 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our senior unsecured five-year credit facility. as of december 31, 2012, $624 million is available. see 2011 credit facility, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. in the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, share repurchases, dividends, and severance and other costs related to restructuring actions. working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $565 million at december 31, 2012, compared with $543 million at december 31, 2011, an increase of $22 million. in december 2012, we entered into an agreement with thomson reuters to acquire its investor relations, public relations and multimedia solutions businesses for $390 million. we plan to fund this transaction through cash on hand and capacity under our revolving credit commitment. upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our corporate solutions business. the proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013. we also announced an agreement to acquire a 25% stake in tom, a dutch cash equities and equity derivatives trading venue. we plan to fund this transaction through cash on hand. the terms of the transaction also provide us an option to acquire an additional 25.1% of the remaining shares at a future date. this transaction delivers on our strategy to expand our derivatives presence across the european market and will be part of our european transaction services business. the acquisition is subject to regulatory approval. principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; changes in our working capital requirements; and an increase in our expenses arising, in part, from the proposed voluntary accommodation program and other expenses related to the systems issues experienced at the time of the facebook ipo. principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity; increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility; credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and volatility in the public debt and equity markets. the following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources. financial assets the following table summarizes our financial assets: december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 (in millions) cash and cash equivalents $ 497 $ 506 restricted cash 85 34 non-current restricted cash 25 97 financial investments, at fair value 223 279 total financial assets $ 830 $ 916 61 table of contents cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. the balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. as of december 31, 2012, our cash and cash equivalents of $497 million were primarily invested in money market funds. in the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. cash and cash equivalents as of december 31, 2012 decreased $9 million from december 31, 2011 primarily due to net cash used in investing and financing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities. see cash flow analysis below for further discussion. current restricted cash, which was $85 million as of december 31, 2012 and $34 million as of december 31, 2011, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at nasdaq omx stockholm and nos clearing. non-current restricted cash was $25 million at december 31, 2012 compared with $97 million at december 31, 2011. the decline in non-current restricted cash is primarily due to the release of restricted cash due to the sale of idcg in august 2012. non-current restricted cash at december 31, 2012 is segregated for nocc to improve its liquidity position, which is not available for general use. repatriation of cash our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $198 million as of december 31, 2012 and $158 million as of december 31, 2011. the remaining balance held in the u.s. totaled $299 million as of december 31, 2012 and $348 million as of december 31, 2011. unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not our current intent to change this position. however, the majority of cash held outside the u.s. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional u.s. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. share repurchase program in the fourth quarter of 2011, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing nasdaq omx to repurchase in the aggregate up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. in the third quarter of 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $300 million of our outstanding common stock. these purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by our management. the purchases are funded from existing cash balances. the share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time. during the fourth quarter of 2011, we repurchased 3,983,481 shares of our common stock at an average price of $25.10, for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. during 2012, we repurchased 11,544,457 shares of our common stock at an average price of $23.82, for an aggregate purchase price of $275 million, completing the share repurchase program authorized in the fourth quarter of 2011. the shares repurchased under the share repurchase program are available for general corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2012, the remaining amount for share repurchases under the program authorized in the third quarter of 2012 was $225 million. cash dividends on common stock in june, september and december of 2012, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. see cash dividends on common stock, of note 13, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. in january 2013, pursuant to delegated authority, the finance committee of the board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. the dividend is payable on march 28, 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on march 14, 2013. future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the board of directors. financial investments, at fair value our financial investments, at fair value totaled $223 million as of december 31, 2012 and $279 million as of december 31, 2011 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly swedish government debt securities. of these securities, $134 million as of december 31, 2012 and $212 million as of december 31, 2011 are restricted assets to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for clearing operations at nasdaq omx nordic clearing. this balance also includes our available-for-sale investment security in dfm valued at $22 million as of december 31, 2012 and $18 million as of december 31, 2011. see note 6, investments, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading securities and available-for-sale investment security. 62 table of contents debt obligations the following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: maturity date december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 (in millions) 3.75% convertible notes (net of discount) (1) october 2012 $ $ 2.50% convertible senior notes august 2013 91 88 4.00% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2015 399 399 $1.2 billion senior unsecured five-year credit facility: $450 million senior unsecured term loan facility september 2016 394 439 $750 million revolving credit commitment september 2016 126 226 5.25% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2018 368 367 5.55% senior unsecured notes (net of discount) january 2020 598 598 total debt obligations 1,976 2,117 less current portion (45 ) (45 ) total long-term debt obligations $ 1,931 $ 2,072 (1) as of december 31, 2011, approximately $0.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% convertible notes remained outstanding. in june 2012, all of the remaining aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% convertible notes outstanding were converted into 34,482 shares of common stock in accordance with the terms of the notes. in addition to the $750 million revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. at december 31, 2012, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2011, these credit facilities totaled $447 million ($206 million in available liquidity and $241 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements clearing operations regulatory capital requirements we are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing. the level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. at december 31, 2012, our required regulatory capital consisted of $113 million of swedish government debt securities, that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets and $45 million of cash that is included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, we have available credit facilities of $93 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. see debt obligations above for further discussion. broker-dealer net capital requirements our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. these requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. at december 31, 2012, nasdaq execution services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $10.9 million, or $10.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. at december 31, 2012, nasdaq options services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $3.4 million, or $3.1 million in excess of the minimum amount required. other capital requirements nasdaq options services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with the options clearing corporation, or occ. 63 table of contents cash flow analysis the following tables summarize the changes in cash flows: year ended december 31, percentage change 2012 2011 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in): operating activities $ 594 $ 669 (11.2 )% investing activities (128 ) (146 ) (12.3 )% financing activities (485 ) (325 ) 49.2 % effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 10 (7 ) # net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (9 ) 191 # cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 506 315 60.6 % cash and cash equivalents at the end of period $ 497 $ 506 (1.8 )% # denotes a variance greater than 100.0%. net cash provided by operating activities the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2012: net income of $349 million, plus: non-cash items of $251 million comprised primarily of $104 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $46 million of share-based compensation expense, $40 million related to asset impairment charges, $16 million of restructuring charges, deferred income taxes of $16 million, and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. decrease in other assets of $71 million primarily due to the release of restricted cash resulting from the sale of idcg. partially offset by a: increase in receivables, net of $30 million primarily due to an increase in receivables across multiple businesses relating to timing of collections and activity, partially offset by a decrease in income tax receivables. decrease in accrued personnel costs of $27 million primarily due to the payment of our 2011 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by the 2012 accrual. decrease in other liabilities of $17 million primarily reflecting the release of escrow amounts related to certain acquisitions and the utilization of sublease reserve balances. decrease in section 31 fees payable to the sec of $9 million primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the nasdaq and nasdaq omx bx trading systems, partially offset by higher section 31 fee rates in 2012. the following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2011: net income of $383 million, plus: non-cash items of $206 million comprised primarily of $109 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $36 million of share-based compensation expense, $31 million for debt extinguishment and refinancing charges, $25 million related to loss on asset retirements and impairment charges, and $13 million related to accretion of debt discounts, partially offset by $10 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. decrease in other assets of $69 million primarily due to a decrease in non-current deferred tax assets related to the utilization of a capital-loss carry-back. increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $24 million primarily due to the timing of payments and an increase in accrued interest payable. increase in section 31 fees payable to sec of $24 million primarily due to higher section 31 fee rates in 2011. 64 table of contents partially offset by a: decrease in other liabilities of $22 million primarily reflecting the utilization of sublease reserves and decreased accrued taxes. decrease in deferred revenue of $14 million primarily due to the timing and delivery of market technology projects. net cash used in investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. net cash used in financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily consisted of $275 million of cash used in connection with our share repurchase programs, repayment of debt obligations of $145 million consisting of an optional prepayment of $100 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million on our $450 million funded term loan, or 2016 term loan, and $65 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily consisted of the repayment of debt obligations of $948 million consisting of the repayment of our term loans in place as of december 31, 2010 of $570 million, repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2013 convertible notes for $343 million, a required quarterly principal payment of $11 million on our 2016 term loan, and an optional principal payment of $24 million on our revolving credit commitment. we also utilized $100 million of cash in connection with our share repurchase program. these decreases were partially offset by proceeds from debt obligations of $700 million consisting of $450 million in proceeds received from the issuance of the 2016 term loan and $250 million in proceeds received from borrowings under our revolving credit commitment. for further discussion of the 2016 term loan, as well as the repayment of our debt obligations, see credit facilities, of note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our debt obligations, see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements. for further discussion of our share repurchase programs, see share repurchase programs and share repurchase from borse dubai, of note 13, nasdaq omx stockholders equity, to the consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations and contingent commitments nasdaq omx has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. the following table shows these contractual obligations as of december 31, 2012: payments due by period contractual obligations total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) debt obligations by contract maturity (1) $ 2,407 $ 217 $ 633 $ 494 $ 1,063 minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net (2) 449 71 128 118 132 other obligations (3) 18 16 2 total $ 2,874 $ 304 $ 763 $ 612 $ 1,195 (1) our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. at december 31, 2012, an interest rate of 1.61% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our 2016 term loan and an interest rate of 1.42% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our revolving credit commitment. all other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at december 31, 2012. see note 9, debt obligations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. (3) in connection with our acquisitions of ften, smarts, glide technologies and the index business of mergent, inc., including indxis, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and to ensure other closing conditions. at december 31, 2012, these agreements provide for future payments of $18 million and are included in other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 65 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements default fund contributions and margin collateral received for clearing operations default fund contributions clearing members eligible contributions may include cash and non-cash contributions. cash contributions are invested by nasdaq omx nordic clearing in accordance with its investment policies and are included in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets. however, non-cash contributions, which include highly rated government debt securities that must meet the investment policies of nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing, as well as pledged cash, are pledged assets that are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing do not take legal ownership of these assets and the risks and rewards remain with the clearing members. these pledged assets are held at a nominee account in nasdaq omx nordic clearing name or nos clearing name for the benefit of the clearing members and are immediately accessible by nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing in the event of default. the pledged asset balances may fluctuate over time due to changes in the amount of deposits required and whether members choose to provide cash or non-cash contributions. see note 16, clearing operations, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our clearing operations and default fund contributions. margin collateral received for clearing operations nordic clearing and nos clearing nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing each require all clearing members to provide collateral, which may consist of cash and eligible securities, in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee, to guarantee performance on the clearing members open positions, or initial margin. in addition, clearing members must also provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial margin. all collateral is maintained at a third-party custodian bank or deposit bank account for the benefit of the clearing members and is immediately accessible by nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing in the event of default. the pledged margin collateral is not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as all risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belongs to the counterparty. clearing member pledged margin collateral related to our clearing operations was $6.7 billion as of december 31, 2012 and $5.0 billion as of december 31, 2011. nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing mark to market all outstanding contracts at least daily, requiring payment from clearing members whose positions have lost value and making payments to clearing members whose positions have gained value. the mark-to-market process helps identify any clearing members that may not be able to satisfy their financial obligations in a timely manner which helps nasdaq omx nordic clearing and nos clearing manage the risk of a clearing member defaulting due to exceptionally large losses. in the event of a default, nasdaq omx nordic clearing or nos clearing can access these margin deposits to cover the defaulting member losses. in the first half of 2013, nasdaq omx nordic clearing will implement a new collateral process. nasdaq omx nordic clearing will maintain all cash deposits related to margin collateral and will include these cash deposits in default funds and margin deposits in the consolidated balance sheets as both a current asset and a current liability, as nasdaq omx nordic clearing will assume the risks and rewards of collateral ownership. in addition to cash, clearing members may also contribute eligible pledged assets consisting of highly rated government debt securities that must meet the specific criteria approved by nasdaq omx nordic clearing and/or an on-demand guarantee. these pledged assets will not be recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as nasdaq omx nordic clearing will not take legal ownership of these assets as the risks and rewards will remain with the clearing members. assets pledged will be held at a nominee account in nasdaq omx nordic clearing name for the benefit of the clearing members and will be immediately accessible by nasdaq omx nordic clearing in the event of default. u.s. clearing nocc is the beneficiary of letters of credit from banks meeting certain rating standards, which are posted on behalf of market participants in lieu of posting cash collateral. the aggregate amount of letters of credit of which nocc is the beneficiary was $101 million at december 31, 2012 and $81 million at december 31, 2011. guarantees issued and credit facilities available in addition to the collateral pledged by clearing members discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. financial guarantees issued to us totaled $7 million at december 31, 2012 and $4 million at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2012, credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily swedish krona, totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. at december 31, 2011, these facilities totaled $447 million ($206 million in available liquidity and $241 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized. 66 table of contents we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. leases we lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs. other guarantees we have provided other guarantees of $18 million as of december 31, 2012 and $17 million as of december 31, 2011. these guarantees primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. in addition, for certain market technology contracts, we have provided performance guarantees of $5 million as of december 31, 2012 and $6 million as of december 31, 2011 related to the delivery of software technology and support services. we have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. we also have provided a $25 million guarantee to nocc to cover potential losses in the event of customer defaults, net of any collateral posted against such losses. we believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for the above guarantees. brokerage activities our broker-dealer subsidiaries, nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services, provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to a clearinghouse or exchange, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. to mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral, as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. however, we believe that the potential for nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets for these arrangements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. as a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. we have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. we identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. we perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. we may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. interest rate risk the following table summarizes our financial assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk as of december 31, 2012: financial assets financial liabilities (1) negative impact of a 100 bp adverse shift in interest rate (2) (in millions) floating rate positions (3) $ 902 $ 729 $ 2 fixed rate positions (4) 115 1,463 1 (1) represents total contractual debt obligations and amounts related to default fund contributions and margin deposits. 67 table of contents (2) annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve. (3) includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months. (4) financial assets primarily consist of swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.5 years. we are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate financial assets of $902 million and financial liabilities of $729 million at december 31, 2012. when interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. when interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. based on december 31, 2012 positions, each 1.0% adverse change in interest rate would impact annual pre-tax income by $2 million related to our floating rate positions. we are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial assets, which totaled $115 million at december 31, 2012 and have an average duration of 1.5 years. the net effect of a parallel shift on 1.0% of the interest rate curve, taking into account the change in fair value and increased interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income by $1 million. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk. for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.5% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 35.6% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 31.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the swedish krona, euro, norwegian krone and danish krone. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2012 0.1478 1.2864 0.1720 0.1728 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 21.8 % 4.0 % 2.8 % 2.5 % 3.7 % percentage of operating income 20.2 % 4.2 % 3.3 % 3.6 % (4.8 )% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (36 ) $ (7 ) $ (5 ) $ (4 ) $ (6 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (14 ) $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (8 ) $ (9 ) # represents multiple foreign currency rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 is presented in the following table: swedish krona euro norwegian krone danish krone other foreign currencies (in millions, except currency rate) average foreign currency rate to the u.s. dollar in 2011 0.1542 1.3922 0.1785 0.1868 # percentage of revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 23.3 % 3.6 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 3.1 % percentage of operating income 22.0 % 5.9 % 2.8 % 3.9 % (3.2 )% impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees $ (39 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation on operating income $ (15 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (5 ) $ # represents multiple foreign currency rates. 68 table of contents our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries net assets or equity to u.s. dollars. substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting. the translation of foreign subsidiaries non-u.s. dollar balance sheets into u.s. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of december 31, 2012 is presented in the following table: net assets impact of a 10% adverse currency fluctuation (millions of dollars) swedish krona (1) $ 4,262 $ (426 ) norwegian krone 326 (33 ) euro 144 (14 ) australian dollar 95 (10 ) (1) includes goodwill of $3,359 million and intangible assets, net of $1,041 million. credit risk credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. we are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. the financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. our subsidiaries nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services they provide for our trading customers. system trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of the nasdaq stock market are routed by nasdaq execution services for clearing to nscc. in this function, nasdaq execution services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving nasdaq execution services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. in this interim period, nasdaq execution services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, nasdaq execution services is legally removed from risk. system trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by nasdaq options services, as a member of the occ. for these trades, novation is done at the end of the trading day, and settlement is complete by 10:00 am on the following day. pursuant to the rules of the nscc and nasdaq execution services clearing agreement, nasdaq execution services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. pursuant to the rules of the occ and nasdaq options services clearing agreement, nasdaq options services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. however, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as nasdaq execution services and nasdaq options services customers are not permitted to trade on margin and nscc and occ rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with nscc and occ. historically, neither nasdaq execution services nor nasdaq options services has incurred a liability due to a customer failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. we are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with nasdaq omx nordic clearing, nos clearing, and riskless principal trading and clearing at nocc. nocc is the legal counterparty for each of their customer positions traded or cleared and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each of their customer contracts. see default fund contributions and margin collateral received for clearing operations, of off-balance sheet arrangements, above, as well as note 16, clearing operations for further discussion. 69 table of contents we also have credit risk related to transaction revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our consolidated balance sheets. most of our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. on an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties creditworthiness. credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. the following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. management estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. for a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. revenue recognition issuer services revenues global listing services listing services revenues in the u.s. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. however, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. market technology revenues revenues are primarily derived from license, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues. we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. in order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vsoe of fair value for each element. when vsoe for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. after we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when nasdaq omx assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. we record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by nasdaq omx. the majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. we may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. under contract accounting, when vsoe for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. we record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 70 table of contents change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized in revenue when earned. goodwill and related impairment goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. we test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2012 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in financial accounting standards board, or fasb, accounting standards codification, or asc, topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other, or asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed. in conducting the initial qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, or any other potential risks to their projected financial results. if required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. first, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. the estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. if the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. in the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. the implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference. for our annual test of goodwill impairment in 2012, we considered the results of our 2011 and 2010 quantitative impairment tests, which indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying amount. we also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units. at the time of our 2012 annual impairment test, our goodwill balance was $5.3 billion, of which $4.7 billion was attributable to our market services segment, $0.4 billion was attributable to our issuer services segment and $0.2 billion was attributable to our market technology segment. we utilized the qualitative screen for issuer services and market technology, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts were significant. in conducting the qualitative assessment for these two reporting units, we evaluated future financial projections by management to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. we also considered the qualitative factors in asc topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our issuer services and market technology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended december 31, 2012. based on unfavorable domestic and international economic trends, particularly declining cash equity and derivative trading volumes, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the market services reporting unit. we performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test and determined that the fair value of our market services reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount. as a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. the fair value of our market services reporting unit was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. the market approach estimates 71 table of contents fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the market services reporting segment operating performance. the multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to our market services reporting unit. the market approach requires management judgment to determine several valuation inputs, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. the control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our market services reporting unit based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. we determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management estimate of the long-term growth of the business. we then discounted the projected cash flows using a weighted average cost of capital of 11.2%. the fair value of our market services reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. holding all other assumptions constant at the testing date, a 5% decrease in the estimated free cash flows of this reporting unit would not reduce the estimated fair value below the carrying amount. however, holding all other assumptions constant, a 50 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the testing of this reporting unit would reduce the estimated fair value below its carrying amount by 1%, indicating a possible impairment. because step two of the impairment was not required for this reporting unit, it is not possible at this time to determine if a decrease in our valuation inputs would result in an impairment charge, or if such a charge would be material. although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management judgment. changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. if our forecast of cash flows generated by our market services reporting unit or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the market services reporting unit would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of an impairment were identified. indefinite-lived intangible assets and related impairment intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach for trade names and the greenfield approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of october 1. in conducting the 2012 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. if the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. other long-lived assets and related impairment we also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. an impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. we evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. in addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. amortization periods of intangible assets with finite-lives intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows: technology: 3 5 years customer relationships: 10 30 years other: 2 10 years 72 table of contents the estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. we consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. we also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products. the estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships. see note 4, acquisitions and divestitures, and note 5, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets. income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions. we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. while we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. if events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. pension and post-retirement benefits pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. we assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. in evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. see note 11, employee benefits, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. actuarial assumptions are based upon management best estimates and judgment. the expected rate of return on plan assets for our u.s. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. the long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. while we consider the pension plans recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return. share-based compensation the accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance share units, or psus. restricted stock awards generally refer to restricted stock units. 73 table of contents we estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the black-scholes valuation model. assumptions used in the black-scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk-free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. the risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. our computation of expected volatility is based on a market-based implied volatility. see note 12, share-based compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. software costs we capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. we expense other purchased software as incurred. certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. we capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software. under our market technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income. foreign currency translation foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the consolidated statements of income. translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate. deferred taxes are not provided on cumulative translation adjustments where we expect earnings of a foreign subsidiary to be indefinitely reinvested. the income tax effect of currency translation adjustments related to foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely reinvested is recorded as a component of deferred taxes with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. recently adopted accounting pronouncements asc topic 820 in may 2011, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to asc topic 820 which requires the categorization by level of the fair value hierarchy for items not measured at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets, but for which the fair value is disclosed. this accounting guidance was effective for us on january 1, 2012. since this guidance only required additional disclosure, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 220 in june 2011, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to asc topic 220, comprehensive income, or asc topic 220, which eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. instead, the amended guidance requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income containing two sections, net income and other comprehensive income, or in two separate but consecutive statements. this accounting guidance was effective for us on january 1, 2012 with early adoption permitted. we adopted this guidance as of june 30, 2011 and present two separate but consecutive statements presenting the components of comprehensive income. since this guidance only required a change in the format of the presentation of comprehensive income, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. asc topic 350 in september 2011, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to asc topic 350, which affects all entities that have goodwill reported in the financial statements. the amended guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or 74 table of contents circumstances, an entity determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. this accounting guidance was effective for us on january 1, 2012 with early adoption permitted. we adopted this guidance as of september 30, 2011 and used the qualitative assessment option for our annual goodwill impairment test performed for fiscal 2011. for testing procedures and results, see goodwill, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. since this guidance only changed the manner in which we assess goodwill for impairment, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. in july 2012, the fasb issued amended guidance relating to asc topic 350, which permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test in accordance with asc topic 350. the more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then no further action is required. this accounting guidance is effective for us on january 1, 2013 with early adoption permitted. we adopted this guidance as of september 30, 2012 and used the qualitative assessment options for our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test performed for fiscal 2012. for testing procedures and results, see intangible assets, net, of note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. since this guidance only changes the manner in which we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, it did not affect our financial position or results of operations. summarized quarterly financial data (unaudited) 1st qtr 2012 2nd qtr 2012 3rd qtr 2012 4th qtr 2012 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 801 $ 823 $ 743 $ 752 cost of revenues (390 ) (399 ) (334 ) (333 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 411 424 409 419 total operating expenses 240 249 239 244 operating income 171 175 170 175 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 85 $ 93 $ 89 $ 85 basic earnings per share $ 0.49 $ 0.55 $ 0.53 $ 0.52 diluted earnings per share $ 0.48 $ 0.53 $ 0.52 $ 0.50 cash dividends declared per common share $ $ 0.13 $ 0.13 $ 0.13 1st qtr 2011 2nd qtr 2011 3rd qtr 2011 4th qtr 2011 (in millions, except per share amounts) total revenues $ 815 $ 837 $ 944 $ 837 cost of revenues (402 ) (422 ) (508 ) (417 ) revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees 413 415 436 420 total operating expenses 230 257 241 259 operating income 183 158 195 161 net income attributable to nasdaq omx $ 104 $ 92 $ 110 $ 82 basic earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 0.52 $ 0.62 $ 0.46 diluted earnings per share $ 0.57 $ 0.51 $ 0.61 $ 0.45 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information about quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is incorporated herein by reference from item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.