risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; customers trading down to lower priced products within starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate that adversely affect consumer spending; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding our business practices or the health effects of consuming our products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially hedged, such as fluid milk and high-quality arabica coffee; 10 table of contents labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers' compensation insurance costs; adverse outcomes of current or future litigation; or construction costs associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; any material interruption in our supply chain beyond our control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, or trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop, and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; the impact on our business, especially in our larger or fast growing markets, due to labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores or cause a material disruption in our supply chain; and deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. any resulting decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: successfully leveraging starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores; focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms; continuing to accelerate the growth of our channel development business; balancing disciplined global store growth and existing store renovation while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; timely completing certain supply chain capacity expansion initiatives, including increased roasting capacity and construction of a new soluble products plant and a new evolution fresh tm plant; and executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to starbucks consumers and employees. 11 table of contents we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant competition in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the us, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the us packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 75% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2012. if revenue trends slow or decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected, and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our emea and cap operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our emea and cap operating segments. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of our large mbus. in particular, our japan, uk, and china mbus account for a significant portion of the net revenue and earnings of our emea and cap segments and a decline in the performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the emea and cap segments are different than those affecting our us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the us or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the us. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the us and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; 12 table of contents limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new us and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, although coffee prices have come down from their near-record highs of 2011, they are still above the historical average price of coffee and may again increase significantly due to factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. although less material to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities including but not limited to those related to food inputs and energy, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 13 table of contents our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of us, where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, such as contaminated food, recalls or privacy breaches, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. our business depends in large part on the success of our business partners and suppliers, and our brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of our control. our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, and licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in our international markets. licensees are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience, the safety of beverages or food or compliance with laws and regulations, may be attributed by customers to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations. our food and beverage products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. 14 table of contents the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, whether or not accurate, could harm our business. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses, food tampering and food contamination, either during manufacturing, packaging or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering or contamination, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, as well adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. effectively managing growth both in our retail store business and our channel development business is challenging and places significant strain on our management and employees and our operational, financial, and other resources. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed 15 table of contents enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. as we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we have recently completed several acquisitions and we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures with third parties. these transactions create risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; problems retaining key personnel; operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; the potential impairment of tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; the difficulty of incorporating an acquired business into our business and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest in the event of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, or take on contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers for some of these information technology systems and support. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause material negative impacts to our product sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem. furthermore, security breaches of our employees' or customers' private data could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and could result in litigation, potential liability and the imposition of penalties. the effect of changes to healthcare laws in the united states may increase the number of employees who choose to participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results. since 1988 we have offered comprehensive healthcare coverage to eligible full-time and part-time employees in the us. we currently have relatively low minimum work hour requirements for our us employees to be eligible for healthcare coverage under our healthcare plans but for various reasons many of our eligible employees choose not to participate in our plans. however, many of such eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to do so when recent changes to healthcare laws in the united states become effective in 2014. such changes include potential fees to persons for not obtaining healthcare coverage and being ineligible for certain healthcare subsidies if an employee is eligible for healthcare coverage under an employer's plan. if a large portion of current eligible employees who 16 table of contents currently choose not to participate in our plans choose to enroll when or after the law becomes effective, it may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and negatively impact on our financial results. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 49 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: successfully leveraging starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores; focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms, including retail tea, and achieving customer acceptance of these new products and platforms while maintaining demand for our current offerings; continuing to accelerate the growth of our channel development business; balancing disciplined global store growth and existing store renovation while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; timely completion of certain supply chain capacity expansion initiatives, including increased roasting capacity and construction of a new soluble products plant; executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to starbucks consumers and employees; and strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the us and internationally; lack of customer acceptance of new products due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; or the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. additionally, effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development business, and expand into new markets internationally 10 table of contents where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the us, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the us packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. additionally, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, could have a negative effect on our business. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 74% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2013. if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our emea and cap operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our emea and cap operating segments. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of our large mbus. in particular, our china mbu contributes meaningfully to both net revenues and earnings for our cap segment and our japan mbu contributes significantly to earnings in that segment. in the emea segment, our uk mbu accounts for a significant portion of the net revenues. a decline in performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the emea and cap segments are different than those affecting our us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the us or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the us. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the us and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; 11 table of contents limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new us and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. our brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of us, where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in our international markets. licensees and food service operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees and food services providers as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store, licensed store or food service location. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as contaminated food, recalls or actual or perceived breaches of privacy, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, although coffee prices have come down from their near-record highs of 2011, they may again increase significantly due to factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically 12 table of contents attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities including but not limited to those related to food inputs, such as tea, produce, baking ingredients, and energy, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; increases in labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers' compensation insurance costs; adverse outcomes of current or future litigation; especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 13 table of contents adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, whether or not accurate, could harm our business. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses, food tampering and food contamination, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering or contamination could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering or contamination, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, as well as adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers for some of these information technology systems and support. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems, including through cyber terrorism, could cause material negative impacts to our product sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem. furthermore, security breaches of our employees' or customers' private data could result in a violation of applicable us and international privacy and other laws, loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and could result in litigation, potential liability and the imposition of penalties. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 42 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes and reduced access to credit. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. our brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the us, where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets. licensees and food service operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees and food services providers as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store, licensed store or food service location. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy, contaminated food, recalls or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media, or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing or content of our products, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. 10 table of contents the unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, as well as the information technology systems of our third party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. security breaches of our or a third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customers' or employees' data or that of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable us and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents, which could also result in similar exposure to liability. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third party business partners or service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. like many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we have experienced frequent attempts to compromise our information technology systems but none have resulted in a material breach. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we have also incorporated many products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses) and meats. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. in addition, instances of food-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores or recalls, as well as adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health 11 table of contents effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: successfully leveraging starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores; focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms, including retail tea, and achieving customer acceptance of these new products and platforms while maintaining demand for our current offerings; continuing the growth of our channel development business; balancing disciplined global store growth and existing store renovation while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to starbucks consumers and employees; and strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the us and internationally; lack of customer acceptance of new products due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; or the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. if we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including other intangibles and goodwill, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. additionally, effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the us, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the us packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. additionally, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, could have a negative effect on our business. 12 table of contents we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 73% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2014 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our cap and emea operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our cap and emea operating segments. some or all of our international market business units ("mbus"), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. in particular, our china mbu contributes meaningfully to both net revenues and earnings for our cap segment and our japan mbu contributes significantly to earnings in that segment. in the emea segment, our uk mbu accounts for a significant portion of the net revenues. a decline in performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the cap and emea segments are different than those affecting our us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the us or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the us. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the us and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new us and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. 13 table of contents increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "c" price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the "c" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "c" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats and energy, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, especially in international markets, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market and minimum wage levels and workers' compensation insurance costs; adverse outcomes of litigation; and especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. 14 table of contents failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, mobile payments, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. although we have security measures in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third party software, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks. if our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions" and "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management" in item 7 of this report. 44 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes and reduced access to credit. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s., where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets, and third party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly in our international channel development business. licensees and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees and foodservice providers as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store, licensed store or foodservice location. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy, contaminated food, recalls or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media, or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of 10 table of contents our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. the unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting and internal and external communications, as well as the information technology systems of our third party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we have experienced frequent attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use or destruction of customers' or employees' data or that of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third party business partners or service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our food products, including our beverages, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses) and meats. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. in addition, instances of food-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls or food-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds 11 table of contents can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support, including a small number of large third party providers for some of our administrative functions. additionally, our systems are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. as a result, we may be unable to use information systems in one market to cover system failures in such market or another market. although we have security measures in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third party software, errors by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings; continuing the global growth of our channel development business; delivering continued growth in our tea business through the teavana brand; and driving convenience and brand engagement through our mobile, loyalty and digital capabilities. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include the following: increases in labor costs, both domestically and internationally, such as general market and minimum wage levels and investing in competitive compensation, increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs and other benefits to attract and retain high quality employees, whether due to regulatory mandates or changing industry practices; increasing competition in channels in which we operate or seek to operate from new and existing large competitors that sell high-quality specialty coffee beverages; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand; the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovation; 12 table of contents lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of teavana) and platforms (such as mobile technology), or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. additionally, our channel development business is also in part dependent on the level of support our retail business partners provide our products, and in some markets there are only a few retailers. if our retail business partners do not provide sufficient levels of support for our products, which is at their discretion, it could limit our ability to grow our channel development business. also, a relatively small number of licensee partners own a large number of licensed stores. if such licensee partners are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable to successfully operate and grow their businesses, including their licensed stores, it could adversely affect our results in the markets in which they operate their licensed stores. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development and teavana businesses, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. furthermore, if we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the u.s. packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. additionally, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, could have a negative effect on our business. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 69% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2015 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our u.s. and canada markets, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our cap and emea operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our cap and emea operating segments. some or all of our international market business units ("mbus"), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. in particular, both our china and japan mbus contribute meaningfully to both net revenues and earnings for our cap segment. in the emea segment, our uk mbu accounts for a significant portion of the net revenues. a decline in performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations. 13 table of contents additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the cap and emea segments are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the u.s. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "c" price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the "c" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "c" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 14 table of contents we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; and especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers or vendors. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues, especially for those products for which we rely on one or few suppliers or vendors, could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 15 table of contents failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions" and "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management" in item 7 of this report. 45 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes and reduced access to credit. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s., where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets, and third party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly in our international channel development business. licensees and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store or a licensed store. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. and although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-starbucks products served in those locations. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy, contaminated food, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases, product recalls or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media, or result in litigation, and failure to respond appropriately to these incidents, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial 10 table of contents results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products or the use of customer data, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our food and beverage products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses), non-dairy alternative products (such as soymilk and almondmilk) and meats. additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers. if customers become ill from food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. in addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls or food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. the unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting and internal and external communications, as well as the information technology systems of our third party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we have experienced frequent attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use or destruction of customers' or employees' data or that of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer or securities litigation and 11 table of contents governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third party business partners or service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution, administration and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third party software or services, errors by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee, including through the development of starbucks reserve roasteries and starbucks reserve stores; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; continuing the global growth of our channel development business; delivering continued growth in our tea business through the teavana brand; and driving convenience and brand engagement through our mobile, loyalty and digital capabilities. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include the following: increases in labor costs, both domestically and internationally, such as general market and minimum wage levels and investing in competitive compensation, increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs and other 12 table of contents benefits to attract and retain high quality employees with the right skill sets, whether due to regulatory mandates, changing industry practices or our expansion into new channels or technology dependent operations; increasing competition in channels in which we operate or seek to operate from new and existing large competitors that sell high-quality specialty coffee beverages; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand; the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovation; lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of teavana) and platforms (such as mobile technology), or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. additionally, our channel development business is also in part dependent on the level of support our retail business partners provide our products, and in some markets there are only a few retailers. if our retail business partners do not provide sufficient levels of support for our products, which is at their discretion, it could limit our ability to grow our channel development business. also, a relatively small number of licensee partners own a large number of licensed stores. if such licensee partners are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable to successfully operate and grow their businesses, including their licensed stores, it could adversely affect our results in the markets in which they operate their licensed stores. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development and teavana businesses, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. furthermore, if we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the u.s. packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. additionally, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, could have a negative effect on our business. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 69% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2016 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our u.s. and canada markets, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. 13 table of contents we are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. some or all of our international market business units ("mbus"), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. in particular, both our china and japan mbus contribute meaningfully to both consolidated and cap net revenues and earnings. a decline in performance of one or more of our significant international mbus could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the u.s. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "c" price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the "c" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "c" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including 14 table of contents weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; and especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s., especially countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or experiencing political instability or social unrest. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers or vendors. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues, especially for those products for which we rely on one or few suppliers or vendors, could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our 15 table of contents strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food and beverage, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions" and "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management" in item 7 of this report. 44 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and economic uncertainty. these factors may also result in a general downturn in the restaurant industry. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions or uncertainty persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s., where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. 10 table of contents additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets, and third party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly in our international channel development business. licensees and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store or a licensed store. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. and although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-starbucks products served in those locations. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy or violations of domestic or international privacy laws, contaminated food, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases, product recalls or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media, or result in litigation, and failure to respond appropriately to these incidents, can significantly reduce brand value, result in civil and criminal liability and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products or the use of customer data, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our food and beverage products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses), non-dairy alternative products (such as soymilk and almondmilk) and meats. additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers. if customers become ill from food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. in addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls or food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, 11 table of contents an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, potential imposition of additional taxes on certain types of beverages, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting and internal and external communications, as well as the information technology systems of our third party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we have experienced frequent attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use or destruction of customers' or employees' data or that of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. for example, the european union adopted a new regulation that becomes effective in may 2018, called the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third party business partners or service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our priority to increase digital relationships with our customers to drive incremental traffic and spend, is highly dependent on our technology systems. our ability to effectively manage our business, launch digital and other initiatives, and coordinate the production, distribution, administration and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, inadequate or 12 table of contents ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third party software or services, errors by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks such as those that result in the blockage of our or our third-party business partners' or service providers' systems and platforms and those discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee, including through the development of starbucks reserve roasteries and starbucks reserve stores; driving convenience and brand engagement through our mobile, loyalty and digital capabilities; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats; moving to a more licensed store model in some markets and a more company-owned model in other markets; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; continuing the global growth of our channel development business; and delivering continued growth in our tea business through the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels and internationally. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include the following: increases in labor costs, both domestically and internationally, such as general market and minimum wage levels and investing in competitive compensation, increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs and other benefits to attract and retain high quality employees with the right skill sets, whether due to regulatory mandates, changing industry practices or our expansion into new channels or technology dependent operations; increasing competition in channels in which we operate or seek to operate from new and existing large competitors that sell high-quality specialty coffee beverages; continuing disruption in retail caused by on-line commerce, resulting in reduced foot traffic to brick &amp; mortar retail stores; consumers shifting categories of where they spend their discretionary income away from outside-the-home food and beverage; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand, including our emphasis on a broad range of high-quality food offerings; the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovation; lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels) and platforms (such as mobile technology), or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. additionally, our channel development business is also in part dependent on the level of support our retail business partners provide our products, and in some markets there are only a few retailers. if our retail business partners do not provide sufficient 13 table of contents levels of support for our products, which is at their discretion, it could limit our ability to grow our channel development business. also, a relatively small number of licensee partners own a large number of licensed stores. if such licensee partners are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable to successfully operate and grow their businesses, including their licensed stores, it could adversely affect our results in the markets in which they operate their licensed stores. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our channel development business, grow our teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. furthermore, if we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, such as large acquisitions and integrations, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. additionally, some of our competitors are also our suppliers, which may result in their ability to offer competing products at a lower price than we do. increased competition in the u.s. packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. furthermore, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products or flattening demand for our products, could have a negative effect on our business, including from price discounting we may have to undertake. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 70% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2017 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our u.s. and canada markets, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. the broader cap market is now one of our two significant profit engines driving our global returns, along with our north american business. in particular, both our china and japan mbus contribute meaningfully to both consolidated and cap net revenues and earnings and china in particular is a significant market for our growth. a decline in performance of one or more of our significant international mbus could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the u.s. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. 14 table of contents our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets, as well as negative effects on u.s. businesses due to increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including tax, labor, merchandise, anti-bribery and privacy laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather (including the potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 15 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters affecting a large market or several closely located markets that may temporarily but significantly affect our retail business in such markets; and especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord or disruption, geopolitical events, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s., especially countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or experiencing political instability or social unrest, and as we increase our fresh and prepared food offerings. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers or vendors. a vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues, especially for those products for which we rely on one or few suppliers or vendors, could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. our ability to attract and retain both corporate and retail personnel is also acutely impacted in certain international and domestic markets where the competition for a relatively small number of qualified employees is intense or in markets where large high-tech companies are able to offer more competitive salaries and benefits. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 16 table of contents failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy (including the european union's gdpr discussed in more detail in this risk factors section), food and beverage, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 45 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, we operate in an increasingly competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, inflation, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, economic uncertainty and potential negative impacts relating to federal economic policy changes and recent international trade disputes. these factors may also result in a general downturn in the restaurant industry. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions or uncertainty persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our global social impact programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s., where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value 10 table of contents of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets, and third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly for our entire global channel development business. licensees, retailers and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensed-store operators as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store or a licensed store. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. and although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-starbucks products served in those locations. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material negative impact on our financial results. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy or violations of domestic or international privacy laws, contaminated food, product recalls, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media (including for malicious reasons), or result in litigation, and failure to respond appropriately to these incidents (or being perceived to not have reacted appropriately), can significantly reduce brand value, trigger boycotts of our stores or products or demonstrations at our stores, result in civil and criminal liability and have a negative impact on our financial results. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we, our employees or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or unequal treatment basis or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products, service and treatment at starbucks stores or the use of customer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes, fail to comply with laws and regulations, publicly take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well. incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our food and beverage products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages, as well as ice for our cold beverages, and our ability to ensure a clean water and ice supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses), non-dairy alternative products (such as soymilk and almondmilk), ice for our cold drinks and meats. we also face risk by relying on third-party food suppliers to provide and transport ingredients and finished products to our stores. we monitor the operations of certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, which make it more difficult to detect contamination or other defect in these products. additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers. if customers become ill from food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, mislabeling or other food or beverage-safety issues, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. in addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary 11 table of contents closure of any of our stores, product recalls or food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, imposition of additional taxes on certain types of beverages, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. many of our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems, delivery services and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting and internal and external communications, as well as the information technology systems of our licensees, franchisees and other third-party business partners and service providers, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers, contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. many of our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we are consistently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of customers' or employees' data or confidential information of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. for example, the european union adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, called the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and transfer and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. the gdpr also confers a private right of action on certain individuals and associations. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. compliance with the gdpr and other applicable international and u.s. privacy, cybersecurity and related laws can be costly and time-consuming. significant capital investments and other expenditures could also be required to remedy cybersecurity problems and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. 12 table of contents we rely heavily on information technology in our operations and growth initiatives, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate and grow our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, delivery services, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our priority to increase digital relationships with our customers to drive incremental traffic and spend, is highly dependent on our technology systems. our ability to effectively manage our business, launch digital and other initiatives, and coordinate the production, distribution, administration and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. we also rely on third-party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third-party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, physical theft, computer and network failures, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors or improper use by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks such as those that result in the blockage of our or our third-party business partners' or service providers' systems and platforms and those discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could result in an interruption in our operations and could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. in addition, remediation of any problems with our systems could result in significant, unplanned expenses. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations or that they will generate expected returns, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee; driving convenience, brand engagement and digital relationships through our mobile, loyalty, delivery and digital capabilities both domestically and internationally; simplifying store administrative tasks to allow store partners to better engage with customers; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats; moving to a more licensed store model in some markets and a more company-owned model in other markets; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; continuing the global growth of our channel development business through our supply, distribution and licensing agreements with nestl and other channel development business partners; delivering continued growth in our cold beverage business, including our tea business through the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels and internationally; and reducing our general and administrative costs. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results, include the following: increases in labor costs, including wages and benefits, which, in a retail business such as ours, are two of our most significant costs, both domestically and internationally; these increases include significant and sudden increases in labor costs triggered by regulatory actions regarding wages and scheduling and benefits requirements; they also include increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs, as well as increased wages and costs of other 13 table of contents benefits necessary to attract and retain high quality employees with the right skill sets, whether due to changing industry practices, competition or our expansion into new channels or technology dependent operations; not successfully developing and implementing new technologies necessary to effectuate our growth strategies, including increasing our digital relationships with customers to drive growth, due to inability to attract and retain qualified high-tech personnel or other factors; increasing competition in channels in which we operate or seek to operate from new and existing large competitors or well-funded smaller ones that sell high-quality specialty coffee beverages; continuing disruption in retail caused by on-line commerce, resulting in reduced foot traffic to brick &amp; mortar retail stores; consumers shifting categories of where they spend their discretionary income away from outside-the-home food and beverage; imposition of additional taxes by jurisdictions, such as on certain types of beverages or based on number of employees; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand, including our emphasis on a broad range of high-quality food offerings; the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovation; lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels) and platforms (such as features of our mobile technology, changes in our loyalty rewards programs and our delivery services initiatives), or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements and the performance of our business partners under such agreements; not successfully consummating and implementing favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses, including our east china business; the effects of the tax cuts and jobs act and related guidance and regulations that may be promulgated; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. our channel development business is heavily reliant on nestl , which acquired the right to sell and distribute our packaged goods and foodservice products to retailers and operators, with few exceptions. if nestl fails to perform its distribution and marketing commitments under our agreements and/or fails to support, protect and grow our brand in channel development, our channel development business could be adversely impacted for a period of time, present long-term challenges to our brand, limit our ability to grow our channel development business and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. additionally, our channel development business is also in part dependent on the level of support our retail business partners provide our products, and in some markets there are only a few retailers. if our retail business partners do not provide sufficient levels of support for our products, which is at their discretion, it could limit our ability to grow our channel development business. also, a relatively small number of licensee partners own a large number of licensed stores. if such licensee partners are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable to successfully operate and grow their businesses, including their licensed stores, it could have a material adverse effect on our results in the markets in which they operate their licensed stores. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, implement our arrangement with nestl for most of our global channel development business and grow our teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels, as well as expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high-quality product and customer 14 table of contents experience. furthermore, if we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, such as large acquisitions and integrations, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, such as delivery service and mobile ordering, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors, or competition from large new entrants or well-funded smaller companies in our domestic and international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. many small competitors also continue to open coffee specialty stores in many of our markets across the world, which in the aggregate may also lead to significant decreases of customer traffic to our stores in those markets. increased competition globally in packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. furthermore, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products or flattening demand for our products, could have a negative effect on our business. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 68% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2018 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our u.s. and canada markets, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. a decline in performance of one or more of our significant international mbus could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. the cap segment is now one of our two significant profit centers driving our global returns, along with our americas segment. in particular, our china mbu contributes meaningfully to both consolidated and cap net revenues and earnings. china is currently our fastest growing market and second largest market overall. with our recent acquisition of the east china business, the china market is now 100% company owned and, along with the u.s. market. due to the significance of our china market for our profit and growth, we are exposed to risks in china, including the risks mentioned elsewhere below and the following: the effects of current u.s.-china relations, including rounds of tariff increases and retaliations and increasing restrictive regulations, potential boycotts and increasing anti-americanism; entry of new competitors to the specialty coffee market in china; changes in economic conditions in china and potential negative effects to the growth of its middle class, wages, labor, inflation discretionary spending and real estate and supply chain costs; ongoing government regulatory reform, including relating to food safety, tariffs and tax, bringing uncertainty and inconsistent interpretations, which may be contrary to ours, as well as potential significant increases in compliance costs; food-safety related matters, including compliance with food-safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety; and the ability to successfully integrate the east china business. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations overall are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with 15 table of contents country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the u.s. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets, as well as negative effects on u.s. businesses due to increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including tax, tariffs, labor, merchandise, anti-bribery and privacy laws and regulations; uncertainties and effects of the implementation of the united kingdom's referendum to withdraw membership from the european union (refer to as brexit ), including financial, legal, tax and trade implications; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. these are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather (including the potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have a material 16 table of contents adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could have a material adverse impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters affecting a large market or several closely located markets that may temporarily but significantly affect our retail business in such markets; and especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord or disruption, geopolitical events, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, natural disasters or political disputes and military conflicts that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could have a negative material impact on our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s., especially countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or experiencing political instability or social unrest, and as we increase our fresh and prepared food offerings. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers. a supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues, especially for those products for which we rely on one or few suppliers, could have a material negative impact on our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, shareholder returns and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance 17 table of contents depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. our ability to attract and retain both corporate and retail personnel is also acutely impacted in certain international and domestic markets where the competition for a relatively small number of qualified employees is intense or in markets where large high-tech companies are able to offer more competitive salaries and benefits, as well as where there is a strong economy with many available jobs and intense competition for the available workforce. additionally, there is intense competition for qualified technology systems developers necessary to develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationships with customers. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy (including the european union's gdpr, discussed in more detail in this risk factors section), food and beverage, sanitation, safety, environmental, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various applicable laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 48 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including the management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, the risks below are not the only risks we face and additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may emerge or become material at any time and may negatively impact our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macro-economic conditions. our customers may have or in the future have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or switch to starbucks or competitors' lower-priced products as a result of various factors, including job losses, inflation, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, changes in federal economic policy and recent international trade disputes. decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction without a corresponding decrease in costs would put downward pressure on margins and would negatively impact our financial results. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions or uncertainty persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis or there may be a general downturn in the restaurant industry. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our global social impact programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world, and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s. where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust can significantly reduce brand value, potentially trigger boycotts of our stores or result in civil or criminal liability and can have a negative impact on our financial results. such incidents include actual or perceived breaches of privacy or violations of domestic or international privacy laws, contaminated food, product recalls, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section. the impact of such incidents may be exacerbated if they receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media (including for malicious reasons) or result in litigation. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we, our employees, licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased, unequal or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products, service and treatment of customers at starbucks stores, or the use of customer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes. additionally, if we fail to comply with laws and regulations, publicly take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well, our brand value may be diminished. 9 table of contents if our business partners and third-party providers do not satisfactorily fulfill their responsibilities and commitments, it could damage our brand and our financial results could suffer. our global business strategy, including our plans for new stores, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly for our entire global channel development business. licensees, retailers and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. we believe our customers expect the same quality of service regardless of whether they visit a licensed or company-operated store, so we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these licensees and other business partners. however, the product quality and service they deliver may still be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. and although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-starbucks products served in those locations. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material negative impact on our financial results. incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors. any report linking us to such instances could severely hurt our sales and could possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) and/or temporary store closures. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages, as well as ice for our cold beverages, and our ability to ensure a clean water and ice supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, which increases the risk of food safety related incidents if correct temperatures are not maintained due to mechanical malfunction or human error. we also face risk by relying on third-party food suppliers to provide and transport ingredients and finished products to our stores. we monitor the operations of certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control and it may be difficult to detect contamination or other defect in these products. additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers. in addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls or food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. many of our information technology systems (and those of our licensees and other third-party business partners, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers), including those used for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, online and mobile payment systems, delivery services and rewards programs, and administrative functions, contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. many of our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we are consistently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third parties' information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of customers' or employees' data or confidential information of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. for example, 10 table of contents the european union adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, called the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and transfer and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. the gdpr also confers a private right of action on certain individuals and associations. additionally, the california privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ), which was enacted in june 2018 and will come into effect on january 1, 2020, provides a new private right of action for data breaches and requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices and allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to security breaches of our or third party's information technology systems. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. compliance with the gdpr, the ccpa and other current and future applicable international and u.s. privacy, cybersecurity and related laws can be costly and time-consuming. significant capital investments and other expenditures could also be required to remedy cybersecurity problems and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breach information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations and growth initiatives, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate and grow our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations for numerous purposes including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, delivery services, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our ability to increase digital relationships with our customers to drive incremental traffic and spend, is highly dependent on our technology systems. we also rely on third-party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third-party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, physical theft, computer and network failures, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors or improper use by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks such as those that result in the blockage of our or our third-party business partners' or service providers' systems and platforms and those discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could result in an interruption in our operations and could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. in addition, remediation of any problems with our systems could result in significant, unplanned expenses. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations or that they will generate expected returns, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee; 11 table of contents driving convenience, brand engagement and digital relationships through our mobile, loyalty, delivery and digital capabilities both domestically and internationally; simplifying store administrative tasks to allow store partners to better engage with customers; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats; moving to a more licensed store model in some markets and a more company-owned model in other markets; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; continuing the global growth of our channel development business through our supply, distribution and licensing agreements with nestl and other channel development business partners; delivering continued growth in our cold beverage business, including our tea business through the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels and internationally; and reducing our operating costs, particularly general and administrative expenses. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results, include the following: imposition of additional taxes by jurisdictions, such as on certain types of beverages or based on number of employees; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand, including our emphasis on a broad range of high-quality food offerings; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. if we are not successful in implementing our strategic initiatives, such as large acquisitions and integrations, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. evolving consumer preferences and tastes may adversely affect our business. our continued success depends on our ability to retain and convert customers. our financial results could be adversely affected by a shift in consumer spending away from outside-the-home food and beverages (such as the disruption caused by on-line commerce that results in reduced foot traffic to "brick &amp; mortar" retail stores); lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels) and platforms (such as features of our mobile technology, changes in our loyalty rewards programs and our delivery services initiatives); or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced. in addition, some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion of linkages to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, imposition of additional taxes on certain types of food and beverage components, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. our reliance on key business partners may adversely affect our business and operations. the growth of our business relies on the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovations as well as on the degree to which we are able to enter into, maintain, develop and negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements and the performance of our business partners under such agreements. our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the 12 table of contents speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our channel development business is heavily reliant on nestl , which acquired the right to sell and distribute our packaged goods and foodservice products to retailers and operators, with few exceptions. if nestl fails to perform its distribution and marketing commitments under our agreements and/or fails to support, protect and grow our brand in channel development, our channel development business could be adversely impacted for a period of time, present long-term challenges to our brand, limit our ability to grow our channel development business and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. additionally, the growth of our channel development business is in part dependent on the level of discretionary support provided by our retail and licensed store businesses. there are generally a relatively small number of licensee partners operating in specific markets. if they are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable to successfully operate and grow their businesses it could have a material adverse effect on our results in the markets. changes in the availability of and the cost of labor could adversely affect our business. increases in labor costs, including wages and benefits, which, in a retail business such as ours, are two of our most significant costs, both domestically and internationally, including those increases triggered by regulatory actions regarding wages, scheduling and benefits; increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs and increased wages and costs of other benefits necessary to attract and retain high quality employees with the right skill sets. furthermore, the growth of our business can make it increasingly difficult to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high-quality product and customer experience which could materially harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, such as delivery service and mobile ordering, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors, or competition from large new entrants or well-funded smaller companies in our domestic and international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. many small competitors also continue to open coffee specialty stores in many of our markets across the world, which in the aggregate may also lead to significant decreases of customer traffic to our stores in those markets. increased competition globally in packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. furthermore, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products or flattening demand for our products, could have a negative effect on our business. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 69% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2019 . if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our u.s. market, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international businesses and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. a decline in performance of one or more of our significant international mbus could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. the international segment is a significant profit center driving our global returns, along with our americas segment. in particular, our china mbu contributes meaningfully to both consolidated and international net revenues and operating income. china is currently our fastest growing market and second largest market overall. with our acquisition of the east china business, the china market is 100% company-owned. due to the significance of our china market for our profit and growth, we are exposed to risks in china, including the risks mentioned elsewhere and the following: 13 table of contents the effects of current u.s.-china relations, including rounds of tariff increases and retaliations and increasing restrictive regulations, potential boycotts and increasing anti-americanism; entry of new competitors to the specialty coffee market in china; changes in economic conditions in china and potential negative effects to the growth of its middle class, wages, labor, inflation discretionary spending and real estate and supply chain costs; ongoing government regulatory reform, including relating to food safety, tariffs and tax, bringing uncertainty and inconsistent interpretations, which may be contrary to ours, as well as potential significant increases in compliance costs; food-safety related matters, including compliance with food-safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety; and the ability to successfully integrate the east china business. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations overall are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations. we face risks as a global business that could adversely affect our financial performance. we operate in over 80 markets globally. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets, as well as negative effects on u.s. businesses due to increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including tax, tariffs, labor, merchandise, anti-bribery and privacy laws and regulations; uncertainties and effects of the implementation of the united kingdom's referendum to withdraw membership from the european union (referred to as brexit ), including financial, legal, tax and trade implications; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; and delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. 14 table of contents increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. the availability and prices of coffee beans and other commodities are subject to significant volatility. we purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather (including the potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels, political and economic conditions, and the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could have a material adverse impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters affecting a large market or several closely located markets that may temporarily but significantly affect our retail business in such markets; especially in our large markets, labor discord or disruption, geopolitical events, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, acts of public violence, boycotts, increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets, social unrest, and health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores; and the discontinuation of the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) after 2021 and the replacement with an alternative reference rate may adversely impact interest rates. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, natural disasters or political disputes and military conflicts that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could have a negative material impact on our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge as we increase our fresh and 15 table of contents prepared food offerings, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s. and from countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or which are experiencing political instability or social unrest. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers. a supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could have a material negative impact on our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales growth, operating cash flows, shareholder returns and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees on whom we rely to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality management personnel and other employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. our ability to attract and retain both corporate and retail personnel is also acutely impacted in certain international and domestic markets where the competition for a relatively small number of qualified employees is intense or in markets where large high-tech companies are able to offer more competitive salaries and benefits. additionally, there is intense competition for qualified technology systems developers necessary to develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationships with customers. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, food and beverage, sanitation, safety, environmental, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. changes in applicable environmental regulations, including increased or additional regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, to discourage the use of plastic or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, incremental investments, and other financial obligations for us and our business partners, which could affect our profitability. in addition, our business is subject to complex and rapidly evolving u.s. and international laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection, and companies are under increased regulatory scrutiny relating to these matters. the federal trade commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection are in flux and authorities around the world are considering a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals in this area. current and future data privacy and data protection laws and regulations (including the gdpr and the ccpa, discussed in more detail in this risk factors section, and other applicable international and u.s. privacy laws), or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may limit our ability to collect and use data, require us to otherwise modify our data processing practices and policies or result in the possibility of fines, litigation or orders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the burdens imposed by these and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or new interpretations of existing and future laws and regulations, may also require us to incur substantial costs in reaching compliance in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, the european commission in july 2016 and the swiss government in january 2017 approved the eu-u.s. and the swiss-u.s. privacy shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow u.s. companies that self-certify to the u.s. department of commerce and publicly commit to comply with the privacy shield requirements to freely import personal data from the eu and switzerland. however, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both europe and the u.s. the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework approved by the european commission which is relied upon for transfers of personal data outside the european economic area could be invalidated by the court of justice of the european union. the potential invalidation of this mechanism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the european economic area. 16 table of contents the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various applicable laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 43 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including the management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, the risks below are not the only risks we face and additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may emerge or become material at 9 table of contents any time and may negatively impact our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. risks related to macroeconomic conditions our financial condition and results of operations have been and are expected to continue to be adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, known as covid-19, was first reported and was subsequently declared a pandemic by the world health organization in march 2020. to date, this outbreak has surfaced in nearly all regions around the world, and as the pandemic continues to spread, particularly in the united states, businesses as well as federal, state and local governments have implemented significant actions to attempt to mitigate this public health crisis. our operations have been and will continue to be disrupted to varying degrees in many markets (from limited operations including only drive-thru and delivery to full store closures in some markets). while we cannot predict the duration or scope of the covid-19 pandemic, it has negatively impacted our business and such impact has been and is expected to continue to be material to our financial results, condition and outlook. the further spread of covid-19, and the requirements to take action to mitigate the spread of the pandemic, will impact our ability to carry out our business as usual and may materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. even in regions where we have reopened stores, our stores may be subject to modified hours and operations and/or reduced customer traffic. moreover, certain of those regions, including parts of china and the united states, have suffered a covid-19 relapse after reopening. if those regions fail to fully contain covid-19, or if additional regions suffer multiple covid-19 relapses, any of those markets may not recover quickly or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. as a result, we may incur additional impairment charges to our inventory, store and corporate assets and our ability to realize the benefits from deferred tax assets may become limited any of which may have a significant or material impact on our financial results. on march 27, 2020, the u.s. government enacted the coronavirus aid, relief and economic security act ( cares act ), which among other things, provides employer payroll tax credits for wages paid to employees who are unable to work during the covid-19 outbreak and options to defer payroll tax payments for a limited period. based on our evaluation of the cares act, we qualify for certain employer payroll tax credits as well as the deferral of payroll tax payments in the future. additionally, the canadian government enacted the canada emergency wage subsidy ( cews ) to help employers offset a portion of their employee wages for a limited period. we elected to treat qualified government subsidies from the u.s., canada and other governments as offsets to the related operating expenses. there is no guarantee that we will continue to meet the eligibility requirements to participate in any current or future government relief programs or that the benefits will meaningfully offset the lost revenues and incremental costs incurred. increased volatility or significant disruption of global financial markets due in part to the covid-19 pandemic could have a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and other funding sources, on acceptable terms or at all and impede our ability to comply with debt covenants. the extent to which covid-19 impacts our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of covid-19 and the efficacy, scope and duration of actions to limit the spread of covid-19 or treat its impact, among others. while such actions have been relaxed or rolled back in certain markets, the actions have been reinstated in certain regions that have suffered relapse, and may be reinstated in additional regions as the pandemic continues to evolve. the scope and timing of any such reinstatements are difficult to predict and may materially affect our future operations. our financial condition and results of operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of other factors, many of which are also largely outside our control. in addition to the covid-19 pandemic, our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of other factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could have a material adverse impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; adverse outcomes of litigation; severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters affecting a large market or several closely located markets that may temporarily but significantly affect our retail business in such markets; and especially in our large markets, labor discord or disruption, geopolitical events (including escalating u.s.-china tensions), war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, acts of public violence, boycotts, increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets, hostilities and social unrest and other health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. 10 table of contents economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macro-economic conditions. our customers may have or in the future have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or switch to starbucks or competitors' lower-priced products as a result of various factors, including job losses, inflation, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, changes in federal economic policy and recent international trade disputes. due to the covid-19 pandemic, we may experience a reduction and/or increased volatility in demand for our products, which may be caused by, among other things: store closures or modified operating hours and business model, reduced customer traffic due to illness, quarantine or government or self-imposed restrictions placed on our stores' operations and changes in consumer spending behaviors (e.g. continued practice of social distancing, decrease in consumer confidence in general macroeconomic conditions and a decrease in consumer discretionary spending). decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction without a corresponding decrease in costs would put downward pressure on margins and would negatively impact our financial results. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions or uncertainty, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic or otherwise, persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis or there may be a general downturn in the restaurant industry. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to net revenues, operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales growth, operating cash flows and shareholder returns, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. risks related to brand relevance and brand execution our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value could have a negative impact on our financial results. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our global social impact programs. the starbucks brand is recognized throughout the world, and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of the u.s. where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust can significantly reduce brand value, potentially trigger boycotts of our stores or result in civil or criminal liability and can have a negative impact on our financial results. such incidents include actual or perceived breaches of privacy or violations of domestic or international privacy laws, contaminated food, product recalls, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases, such as covid-19, or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section. the impact of such incidents may be exacerbated if they receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media (including for malicious reasons) or result in litigation. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we, our employees, licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased, unequal or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products, service and treatment of customers at starbucks stores, or the use of customer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes. additionally, if we fail to comply with laws and regulations, publicly take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well or foster an inclusive and diverse environment, our brand value may be diminished. 11 table of contents if our business partners and third-party providers do not satisfactorily fulfill their responsibilities and commitments, it could damage our brand and our financial results could suffer. our global business strategy, including our plans for new stores, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly for our entire global channel development business. licensees, retailers and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. we believe our customers expect the same quality of service regardless of whether they visit a licensed or company-operated store, so we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these licensees and other business partners. however, the product quality and service they deliver may still be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. we do not have direct control over our business partners, including in their adherence to additional sanitation protocols and guidelines as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, and may not have visibility into their practices. we also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. and although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-starbucks products served in those locations. additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material negative impact on our financial results. incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors. any report linking us to such instances could severely hurt our sales and could possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) and/or temporary store closures. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages, as well as ice for our cold beverages, and our ability to ensure a clean water and ice supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. we are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, which increases the risk of food safety related incidents if correct temperatures are not maintained due to mechanical malfunction or human error. we also face risk by relying on third-party food suppliers to provide and transport ingredients and finished products to our stores. we monitor the operations of certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control and it may be difficult to detect contamination or other defect in these products. furthermore, due to the covid-19 pandemic, there are stricter health regulations and guidelines and increased public concern over food safety standards and controls. potential food safety incidents, whether at our stores or involving our business partners, could lead to wide public exposure, which could materially harm our business. additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers, especially in light of the heightened safety protocols as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. in addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls, viral-contaminated food or beverage claims or other food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations or that they will generate expected returns, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; building our leadership position around coffee; 12 table of contents driving convenience, brand engagement and digital relationships through our mobile, loyalty, delivery and digital capabilities both domestically and internationally; simplifying store administrative tasks to allow store partners to better engage with customers; increasing the scale of the starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats, including the accelerated development of alternative store formats (such as starbucks pickup stores, starbucks now stores and curbside pickup) in light of the covid-19 pandemic; adjusting rapidly to changing customer preferences and behaviors in light of the covid-19 pandemic; moving to a more licensed store model in some markets and a more company-owned model in other markets; creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; continuing the global growth of our channel development business through our supply, distribution and licensing agreements with nestl and other channel development business partners; delivering continued growth in our cold beverage business, including our tea business through the teavana brand in our starbucks retail stores and other channels and internationally; and reducing our operating costs, particularly general and administrative expenses. in addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results, include the following: imposition of additional taxes by jurisdictions, such as on certain types of beverages or based on number of employees; construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the u.s. and internationally; governmental regulations or other health guidelines concerning operations of stores due to the covid-19 pandemic; not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand, including our emphasis on a broad range of high-quality food offerings; and the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. if we are not successful in implementing our strategic initiatives, such as large acquisitions and integrations, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. in the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. evolving consumer preferences and tastes may adversely affect our business. our continued success depends on our ability to retain and convert customers. our financial results could be adversely affected by a shift in consumer spending away from outside-the-home food and beverages (such as the disruption caused by online commerce that results in reduced foot traffic to brick &amp; mortar retail stores); lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of the starbucks brand) and platforms (such as features of our mobile technology, changes in our loyalty rewards programs and our delivery services initiatives); or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced. in addition, some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion of linkages to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the u.s., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, imposition of additional taxes on certain types of food and beverage components, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. furthermore, our financial results have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, which has resulted in a disruption of customer routines, changes to employer work- 13 table of contents from-home policies, reduced business and recreational travel and changes in consumer behavior and the ability or willingness to spend discretionary income on our products. risks related to cybersecurity and data privacy the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. many of our information technology systems (and those of our licensees and other third-party business partners, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers), including those used for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, online and mobile payment systems, delivery services and rewards programs and administrative functions, contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. many of our information technology systems also contain starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, product development initiatives and designs. similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we are consistently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems. similar to other companies, the number and frequency of these attempts varies from year to year but could be exacerbated to some extent by an increase in our digital operations in our efforts to comply with state and local mandates in response to covid-19. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third parties' information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of customers' or employees' data or confidential information of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. for example, the european union adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, called the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and transfer and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. the gdpr also confers a private right of action on certain individuals and associations. additionally, the california privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ), which was enacted in june 2018 and came into effect on january 1, 2020, provides a new private right of action for data breaches and requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices and allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to security breaches of our or third party's information technology systems. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. compliance with the gdpr, the ccpa and other current and future applicable international and u.s. privacy, cybersecurity and related laws can be costly and time-consuming. significant capital investments and other expenditures could also be required to remedy cybersecurity problems and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breach information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations and growth initiatives, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate and grow our business and could adversely affect our financial results. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations for numerous purposes including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, starbucks cards, online business, delivery services, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our ability to increase digital 14 table of contents relationships with our customers to drive incremental traffic and spend, is highly dependent on our technology systems. furthermore, due to social distancing measures put in place as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we have accelerated the transformation of our store portfolio by expanding convenience-led formats, which depend heavily on our mobile ordering capabilities. we also rely on third-party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third-party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, physical theft, computer and network failures, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors or improper use by our employees or third party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks such as those that result in the blockage of our or our third-party business partners' or service providers' systems and platforms and those discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. if our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could result in an interruption in our operations and could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. in addition, remediation of any problems with our systems could result in significant, unplanned expenses. risks related to labor and supply chain our reliance on key business partners may adversely affect our business and operations. the growth of our business relies on the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovations as well as on the degree to which we are able to enter into, maintain, develop and negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements and the performance of our business partners under such agreements. our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our channel development business is heavily reliant on nestl , which acquired the right to sell and distribute our packaged goods and foodservice products to retailers and operators, with few exceptions. if nestl fails to perform its distribution and marketing commitments under our agreements and/or fails to support, protect and grow our brand in channel development, our channel development business could be adversely impacted for a period of time, present long-term challenges to our brand, limit our ability to grow our channel development business and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. additionally, the growth of our channel development business is in part dependent on the level of discretionary support provided by our retail and licensed store businesses. there are generally a relatively small number of licensee partners operating in specific markets. if they are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable or unwilling to successfully operate and grow their businesses it could have a material adverse effect on our results in the markets. our business partners may be materially adversely impacted by the covid-19 pandemic and may not have sufficient financial support and capital to remain financially solvent and may not have the ability to meet their development goals and targets. due to the covid-19 pandemic, our financial results have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the disruption to the operations of our business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, through the effects of business and facilities closures, reductions in operating hours, social, economic, political or labor instability in affected areas, transportation delays, travel restrictions and changes in operating procedures, including for additional cleaning and safety protocols. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. the availability and prices of coffee beans and other commodities are subject to significant volatility. we purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. we frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base c coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather (including the potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels, political and economic conditions and the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of 15 table of contents coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third-party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, pandemics, social or labor unrest, natural disasters or political disputes and military conflicts that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could have a negative material impact on our business and our profitability. additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. we rely on these suppliers to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge as we increase our fresh and prepared food offerings, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the u.s. and from countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or which are experiencing political instability or social unrest. for certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers. a supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could have a material negative impact on our business and profitability. changes in the availability of and the cost of labor could adversely affect our business. our business could be adversely impacted by increases in labor costs, including wages and benefits, which, in a retail business such as ours, are two of our most significant costs, both domestically and internationally, including those increases triggered by regulatory actions regarding wages, scheduling and benefits; increased health care and workers' compensation insurance costs; increased wages and costs of other benefits necessary to attract and retain high quality employees with the right skill sets and increased wages, benefits and costs related to the covid-19 pandemic. the growth of our business can make it increasingly difficult to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high-quality product and customer experience, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. furthermore, due to the covid-19 pandemic, we could experience a shortage of labor for store positions as concern over exposure to covid-19 and other factors could decrease the pool of available qualified talent for key functions. in addition, our wages and benefits programs, combined with the challenging conditions due to the covid-19 pandemic, may be insufficient to attract and retain the best talent. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees on whom we rely to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality management personnel and other employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. our ability to attract and retain both corporate and retail personnel is also acutely impacted in certain international and domestic markets where the competition for a relatively small number of qualified employees is intense or in markets where large high-tech companies are able to offer more competitive salaries and benefits. additionally, there is intense competition for qualified technology systems developers necessary to develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationships with customers. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 16 table of contents risks related to competition we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, such as delivery service and mobile ordering, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the u.s., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to starbucks stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors, or competition from large new entrants or well-funded smaller companies in our domestic and international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. many small competitors also continue to open coffee specialty stores in many of our markets across the world, which in the aggregate may also lead to significant decreases of customer traffic to our stores in those markets. increased competition globally in packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the channel development segment. furthermore, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, flattening demand for our products, changed customer daily routines or traffic to stores as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, or changed customer spending behaviors due to challenging economic conditions, could have a negative effect on our business. risks related to operating a global business we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our americas operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 70% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2020. if the americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, or does not successfully recover in the post covid-19 environment, especially in our u.s. market, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. and because the americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international businesses and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large mbus operate. a decline in performance of one or more of our significant international mbus could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. the international segment is a significant profit center driving our global returns, along with our americas segment. in particular, our china mbu contributes meaningfully to both consolidated and international net revenues and operating income. china is currently our fastest growing market, our second largest market overall and 100% company-owned. due to the significance of our china market for our profit and growth, we are exposed to risks in china, including the risks mentioned elsewhere and the following: the effects of current u.s.-china relations, including rounds of tariff increases and retaliations and increasing restrictive regulations, potential boycotts and increasing anti-americanism; escalating u.s.-china tension and increasing political sensitivities in china; the effects of the covid-19 pandemic and related governmental regulations and restrictions on our operations in china; entry of new competitors to the specialty coffee market in china; changes in economic conditions in china and potential negative effects to the growth of its middle class, wages, labor, inflation discretionary spending and real estate and supply chain costs; ongoing government regulatory reform, including relating to public health, food safety, tariffs and tax, sustainability, bringing uncertainty and inconsistent interpretations, which may be contrary to ours, as well as potential significant increases in compliance costs; and food-safety related matters, including compliance with food-safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety. 17 table of contents additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations overall are different than those affecting our u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some mbus may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the u.s. or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the u.s. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations. we face risks as a global business that could adversely affect our financial performance. we operate in over 80 markets globally. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets, as well as negative effects on u.s. businesses due to increasing anti-american sentiment in certain markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including tax, tariffs, labor, merchandise, anti-bribery and privacy laws and regulations; uncertainties and effects of the implementation of the united kingdom's referendum to withdraw membership from the european union (referred to as brexit ), including financial, legal, tax and trade implications; restrictive actions of foreign or u.s. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the u.s. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new u.s. and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; local regulations, health guidelines and safety protocols related to the covid-19 pandemic affecting our store operations; and delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. risks related to governmental and regulatory changes failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, food and beverage, sanitation, safety, environmental, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. changes in applicable environmental regulations, including increased or additional regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, to discourage the use of plastic or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, incremental investments and other financial obligations for us and our business partners, which could affect our profitability. furthermore, due to the covid-19 18 table of contents pandemic, we are subject to additional domestic and foreign governmental regulations and health guidelines, as well as any other voluntary safety protocols. in addition, our business is subject to complex and rapidly evolving u.s. and international laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection, and companies are under increased regulatory scrutiny relating to these matters. the federal trade commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection are in flux and authorities around the world are considering a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals in this area. current and future data privacy and data protection laws and regulations (including the gdpr and the ccpa, discussed in more detail in this risk factors section, and other applicable international and u.s. privacy laws), or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may limit our ability to collect and use data, require us to otherwise modify our data processing practices and policies or result in the possibility of fines, litigation or orders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the burdens imposed by these and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or new interpretations of existing and future laws and regulations, may also require us to incur substantial costs in reaching compliance in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, the european commission in july 2016 and the swiss government in january 2017 approved the eu-u.s. and the swiss-u.s. privacy shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow u.s. companies that self-certify to the u.s. department of commerce and publicly commit to comply with the privacy shield requirements to freely import personal data from the eu and switzerland. however, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both europe and the u.s. the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework approved by the european commission, which is relied upon for transfers of personal data outside the european economic area could be invalidated by the court of justice of the european union. the potential invalidation of this mechanism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the european economic area. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. in addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various applicable laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 46 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report.risk factors this annual report on form 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. starbucks is under no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. these forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the company actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect starbucks business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. starbucks has positioned itself as a third place between home and work where people can gather together for human connection. customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the impact of a health pandemic on starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. market expectations for starbucks financial performance are high. management believes the price of starbucks stock reflects high market expectations for its future operating results. in particular, any failure to meet the market high expectations for starbucks comparable store sales growth rates, earnings per share and new store openings could cause the market price of starbucks stock to drop rapidly and sharply. starbucks is highly dependent on the financial performance of its united states operating segment. the company financial performance is highly dependent on its united states operating segment, which comprised 84% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2005. any substantial or sustained decline in these operations, if not offset by increased financial performance elsewhere, could materially adversely affect the company business and financial results. declines in financial performance of the company united states operating segment could arise from, among other things: failing to meet annual targets for net store openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable store sales growth rates and expectations (commonly referred to as same store sales growth); negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor costs; higher coffee, dairy or other commodity costs; 9 table of contents opening less productive stores and cannibalizing existing stores with new stores; shifts in sales mix toward lower-margin products; higher costs associated with maintaining and refurbishing the company existing base of company-operated retail stores; the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; and failing to consistently provide high quality products and innovate new products and business processes to retain the company existing customer base and attract new customers. starbucks is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the company actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets, or projections, including: declines in actual or estimated comparable store sales growth rates and expectations; failing to meet annual targets for store openings, as a result of delays in store openings or failing to identify and secure sufficient real estate locations; failing to continue to increase net revenues and operating income in either or both of starbucks united states and international operating segments; failing to penetrate and expand into emerging international markets, such as china; failure of newly-opened stores to generate expected financial results; failing to anticipate, appropriately invest in and effectively manage the human, information technology and logistical resources necessary to support the growth of its business, including managing the costs associated with such resources; failing to integrate, leverage and generate expected rates of return on investments, including expansion of existing businesses and expansion through domestic and foreign acquisitions; failing to generate sufficient future positive operating cash flows and, if necessary, secure adequate external financing to fund its growth; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; lack of customer acceptance of new products; lack of customer acceptance of starbucks products in new markets; increases in the price of high quality arabica coffee, dairy products, and other consumables, and the company inability to obtain a sufficient supply of such commodities and consumables as its business grows; failing to manage the impact of any adverse publicity regarding the company business practices or the health effects of consuming its products; increased labor costs, including significant increases in worker compensation insurance premiums and health care benefits; litigation against starbucks, particularly any class action litigation; 10 table of contents unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, unemployment rates, disposable income and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending; unanticipated changes in executive management; failing to manage the impact on starbucks business of factors such as labor discord, war, terrorism, political instability in certain markets and natural disasters; and interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the company distribution channels. the company success depends substantially on the value of the starbucks brand. starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for its corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. management believes it must preserve and grow the value of the starbucks brand to be successful in the future, particularly outside of north america, where the starbucks brand is less well known. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities, and can be damaged badly even by isolated business incidents that degrade consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. consumer demand for the company products and its brand equity could diminish significantly if starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of its markets. effectively managing the company rapid growth is challenging. the company long-term goal is to open approximately 15,000 starbucks stores in the united states and at least 15,000 stores in international markets. starbucks expects annual total net revenue growth of approximately 20% and annual earnings per share growth of approximately 20-25% for the next three to five year period (excluding fiscal 2006, when starbucks begins recording the effect of stock compensation as an expense using the modified prospective transition method). effectively managing growth on this scale is challenging, particularly as starbucks expands into new markets internationally, and it becomes increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the company growth targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. achieving the company growth targets is also dependent on its ability to open more new stores in the current year as well as future years than it opened in prior years. the loss of key personnel or any difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executive and operating officers and other personnel. starbucks must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. 11 table of contents starbucks faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market. there are numerous competitors in almost every market in which starbucks operates and in which it expects to expand in both the specialty coffee beverage business and the specialty whole bean coffee business. this is especially true in the major metropolitan areas where starbucks operates and expects to expand, in virtually all of which there are local or regional competitors with substantial collective market presence. although competition in the specialty coffee beverage market is currently fragmented, a major competitor with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources than starbucks could enter this market at any time and compete directly against starbucks. the company whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold through supermarkets, specialty retailers and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. some of the company competitors in these whole bean specialty coffee distribution channels have greater financial and marketing resources than starbucks. both the company whole bean coffees and its coffee beverages compete indirectly against all other coffees on the market. starbucks also faces well-established competitors in many international markets. if starbucks fails to maintain and build market share in the specialty coffee market and the coffee market generally, it could harm the company business and financial results. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming the company products could harm its business. some of the company products contain significant amounts of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are not fully understood or are the subject of increasing public scrutiny. a number of research studies have concluded or suggested that excessive consumption of caffeine can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. there has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. particularly in the united states, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while starbucks has a variety of beverage and food items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for the company beverages and food products. significant increases in the market price or decreases in availability of high quality arabica coffee could harm the company business and financial results. the supply and price of coffee are subject to significant volatility. although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above commodity coffee prices, depending on the supply and demand at the time of purchase. supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and economic conditions. in addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or restricting coffee supplies. any significant increase in the market price or any significant decrease in the availability of high quality arabica coffee could adversely affect the company business and financial results. starbucks also purchases large quantities of dairy products particularly milk. any significant increase in the market price or decrease in availability of dairy products could harm the company business and financial results. 12 table of contents starbucks is increasingly dependent on the success of its international operating segment in order to achieve its growth targets. the company future growth depends increasingly on the growth and operations of its international operating segment. some or all of the company international market business units ( mbus ), which starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth. starbucks may find business partners who do not share its cultural, marketing or operating philosophies or who are unable to operate the mbu profitably. some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting the company u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the company existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the united states due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of the company international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher, compared to u.s. operations. the company international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, social and political conditions in the company markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or united states governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis than in the united states; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations due to distance, language and cultural differences; and local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees. the china market is important to the company long-term growth prospects doing business there and in other developing countries can be challenging. starbucks expects the people republic of china to be one of its largest markets outside of the united states. any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations might adversely affect the company china business. the company growing investments in its china operations will increase the company exposure in this market. many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government. china government regulates the business conducted by starbucks through its subsidiaries, joint ventures and authorized licensees by restricting the scope of the company foreign investments within china and the food and beverage, retail, wholesale and distribution business conducted within china. although 13 table of contents management believes it has structured the company china operations to comply with local laws, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if china governmental authorities were ultimately to conclude that starbucks has not complied with one or more existing or future laws or regulations, or if their interpretations of those laws or regulations were to change over time, the company affiliates could be subject to fines and other financial penalties or forced to cease operations entirely. moreover, it could adversely affect the company business if it is unable to enforce its intellectual property and contract rights in china courts. additionally, starbucks plans to enter selected markets in other developing countries (such as russia, india and brazil) as an important part of the projected growth of the international operating segment. some of those markets pose legal and business challenges similar to the china market, such as substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. failure of the company internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. the management of starbucks is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the company transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of the company assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the company financial statements would be prevented or detected. the company rapid growth and entry into new, globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the company system of internal control over financial reporting. any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the company ability to report its financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 39 table of contentsrisk factors this annual report on form 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements generally are identified by words such as believe , expect , anticipate , estimate , intend , strategy , may , will likely and similar words or phrases. a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. starbucks is under no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. these forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the company actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and risks that management currently considers immaterial may also have an adverse effect on the company. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect starbucks business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. starbucks has positioned itself as a third place between home and work where people can gather together for human connection. customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the impact of a health pandemic on starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. market expectations for starbucks financial performance are high. management believes the price of starbucks stock reflects high market expectations for its future operating results. in particular, any failure to meet the market high expectations for starbucks comparable store sales growth rates, earnings per share and new store openings could cause the market price of starbucks stock to drop rapidly and sharply. starbucks is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the company actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets, or projections, including: declines in actual or estimated comparable store sales growth rates and expectations; failing to meet annual targets for store openings, as a result of delays in store openings or failing to identify and secure sufficient real estate locations; negative trends in operating expenses or failing to continue to increase net revenues and operating income in any or all of starbucks united states, international and cpg operating segments; failing to penetrate and expand into emerging international markets, such as china; opening less productive stores and cannibalizing existing stores with new stores; higher costs associated with maintaining and refurbishing the company existing base of company-operated retail stores; 10 starbucks corporation, form 10-k table of contents failing to anticipate, appropriately invest in and effectively manage the human, information technology and logistical resources necessary to support the growth of its business, including managing the costs associated with such resources; failing to integrate, leverage and generate expected rates of return on investments, including expansion of existing businesses and expansion through domestic and foreign acquisitions; failing to generate sufficient future positive operating cash flows and, if necessary, secure adequate external financing to fund its growth; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; failing to meet customer demand efficiently during peak periods; lack of customer acceptance of new products; lack of customer acceptance of starbucks products in new markets; failing to consistently provide high quality products and innovate new products and business processes to retain the company existing customer base and attract new customers; increases in the price of high quality arabica coffee, dairy products, fuel, energy or other consumables, and the company inability to obtain a sufficient supply of such commodities and consumables as its business grows; failing to manage the impact of any adverse publicity regarding the company business practices or the health effects of consuming its products; increased labor costs, including significant increases in health care benefits and worker compensation insurance costs; litigation against starbucks, particularly any class action litigation; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, unemployment rates, disposable income and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending; unanticipated changes in executive management; any material interruption in the company supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the company roasting plants, or material interruption in the supply of fluid milk or paper and plastic products such as cups, lids, napkins, straws, shopping bags and corrugated paper boxes, in each case due to the inability of one or more key suppliers to fulfill the company requirements; the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; failing to manage the impact on starbucks business of factors such as labor discord, war, terrorism, political instability in certain markets and natural disasters; and interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the company distribution channels. the company success depends substantially on the value of the starbucks brand. starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for its corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. management believes it must preserve and grow the value of the starbucks brand to be successful in the future, particularly outside of north america, where the starbucks brand is less well known. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities, and can be damaged badly even by isolated business incidents that degrade consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. consumer demand for the company products and its brand equity could diminish significantly if starbucks corporation, form 10-k 11 table of contents starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of its markets. starbucks is highly dependent on the financial performance of its united states operating segment. the company financial performance is highly dependent on its united states operating segment, which comprised 79% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2006. any substantial or sustained decline in these operations, if not offset by increased financial performance elsewhere, could materially adversely affect the company business and financial results. starbucks is increasingly dependent on the success of its international operating segment in order to achieve its growth targets. the company future growth depends increasingly on the growth and operations of its international operating segment. some or all of the company international market business units ( mbus ), which starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth. starbucks may find business partners who do not share its cultural, marketing or operating philosophies or who are unable to operate the mbu profitably. some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting the company u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the company existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the united states due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of the company international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher, compared to u.s. operations. the company international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, social and political conditions in the company markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or united states governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis than in the united states; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations due to distance, language and cultural differences; and local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees. the china market is important to the company long-term growth prospects doing business there and in other developing countries can be challenging. starbucks expects the people republic of china to be its largest market outside of the united states. any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations might adversely affect the company china business. the company growing investments in its china operations will increase the company exposure in this market. 12 starbucks corporation, form 10-k table of contents many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government. china government regulates the business conducted by starbucks through its subsidiaries, joint ventures and authorized licensees by restricting the scope of the company foreign investments within china and the food and beverage, retail, wholesale and distribution business conducted within china. although management believes it has structured the company china operations to comply with local laws, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if china governmental authorities were ultimately to conclude that starbucks has not complied with one or more existing or future laws or regulations, or if their interpretations of those laws or regulations were to change over time, the company affiliates could be subject to fines and other financial penalties or forced to cease operations entirely. moreover, it could adversely affect the company business if it is unable to enforce its intellectual property and contract rights in china courts. additionally, starbucks plans to enter selected markets in other developing countries (such as russia and india) as an important part of the projected growth of the international operating segment. some of those markets pose legal and business challenges similar to the china market, such as substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. effectively managing the company rapid growth is challenging. the company long-term goal is to open approximately 20,000 starbucks stores in the united states and at least 20,000 stores in international markets. starbucks expects annual total net revenue growth of approximately 20% and annual earnings per share growth of approximately 20-25% for the next three to five year period. effectively managing growth on this scale is challenging, particularly as starbucks expands into new markets internationally, and it becomes increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the company growth targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. achieving the company growth targets is also dependent on its ability to open more new stores in the current year as well as future years than it opened in prior years. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executive and operating officers and other personnel. starbucks must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage or loss of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. starbucks faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market. there are numerous competitors in almost every market in which starbucks operates and in which it expects to expand in both the specialty coffee beverage business and the specialty whole bean coffee business. this is especially true in the major metropolitan areas where starbucks operates and expects to expand, in virtually all of which there are local or regional competitors with substantial collective market presence. although competition in the specialty coffee beverage market is currently fragmented, competition is increasing, particularly from competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector who are focusing on growing the specialty coffee beverage part of their businesses. a major competitor with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources than starbucks could enter this market at any time and compete directly against starbucks. the company whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold through supermarkets, specialty retailers and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. some of the company competitors in these whole bean specialty coffee distribution channels have greater financial and marketing resources than starbucks. both the company whole bean coffees and its coffee beverages compete indirectly against all other coffees on the market. starbucks also faces well-established competitors in many international markets. if starbucks fails to maintain starbucks corporation, form 10-k 13 table of contents and build market share in the specialty coffee market and the coffee market generally, it could harm the company business and financial results. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming the company products could harm its business. some of the company products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. there has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. particularly in the united states, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while starbucks has a variety of beverage and food items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for the company beverages and food products. significant increases in the market price or decreases in availability of high quality arabica coffee could harm the company business and financial results. the supply and price of coffee are subject to significant volatility. although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above commodity coffee prices, depending on the supply and demand at the time of purchase. supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and economic conditions. in addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or restricting coffee supplies. any significant increase in the market price or any significant decrease in the availability of high quality arabica coffee could adversely affect the company business and financial results. starbucks also purchases large quantities of dairy products particularly milk. any significant increase in the market price or decrease in availability of dairy products could harm the company business and financial results. failure of the company internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. the management of starbucks is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the company transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the company financial statements would be prevented or detected. the company rapid growth and entry into new, globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the company system of internal control over financial reporting. any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the company ability to report its financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 36 starbucks corporation, form 10-k table of contentsrisk factors starbucks is including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the act ) for forward-looking statements. this 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the act. forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. they often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, may, aims, intends, or projects. a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. these forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the company actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, starbucks business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the factors listed below are not exhaustive. other sections of this 10-k include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact starbucks business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, starbucks operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict the impact of all these factors on starbucks business, financial condition or results of operation or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this 10-k and any other public statement made by starbucks or its management may turn out to be incorrect. starbucks expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. starbucks financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside the company control. the company operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside the company control. any one or more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact starbucks business, financial condition and/or results of operations: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; customers trading down to lower priced products within starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which starbucks operates that adversely affect consumer spending; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or 8 table of contents adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding the company business practices or the health effects of consuming its products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the company control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high quality arabica coffee (see also the discussion under product supply in item 1); labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers compensation insurance costs; litigation against starbucks, particularly class action litigation; construction costs associated with new store openings; or information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the company business; delays in store openings for reasons beyond the company control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; any material interruption in the company supply chain beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the company roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the company distribution channels, or trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions; and the impact on starbucks business of factors such as labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural disasters. the company may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact on its business and financial results. there is no assurance that the company will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with its expectations, which may result in a material adverse impact on the company business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to drive long-term shareholder value and improve starbucks results of operations, and include: ongoing initiatives to improve the current state of the business by refocusing on the customer experience in the stores, new products and store design elements, and new training and tools for the company store partners to help them give customers a superior experience; balancing disciplined global store growth while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate the company message directly to starbucks consumers and partners; and focusing on relevant innovation and profitable growth platforms, such as the recent introduction of starbucks soluble coffee, via. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect the company business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, the company results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. starbucks customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices. any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact the company 9 table of contents financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. failure to meet market expectations for starbucks financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of starbucks stock. the company failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of starbucks stock. starbucks is highly dependent on the financial performance of its us operating segment. the company financial performance is highly dependent on its us operating segment, which comprised approximately three-quarters of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2009. the company continued to experience negative traffic in its us stores in fiscal 2009, which adversely affected the operating results of the us segment and the company as a whole. although the us segment operating results improved in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to the company restructuring efforts, if improvements in its financial performance do not continue, the company business and financial results will continue to be adversely affected. starbucks is increasingly dependent on the success of its international operating segment in order to achieve its growth targets. the company future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of its international operating segment. some or all of the company international market business units ( mbus ), which starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of the international operating segment may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the company large mbus. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting the company us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the company existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of the company international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to us operations. the company international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in the company markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; 10 table of contents in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as the company forecasts; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences; and local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to the company long-term growth prospects. starbucks international operating segment is highly dependent on the financial performance of its canada, japan and uk market. starbucks canada, japan and uk markets account for a significant portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the company international operating segment. any significant decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the entire international operating segment, if not partially or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other two major markets. starbucks faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market, which could lead to reduced profitability. a description of the general competitive conditions in which starbucks operates appears under competition in item 1. in the us, the continued focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages at a low cost has attracted starbucks customers and could, if the numbers become large enough, adversely affect the company sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect the company sales and results of operations in those markets. the company faces increased competition from larger well-known competitors which have greater resources. increasing competition from the us packaged coffee and tea and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets could adversely affect the profitability of the cpg segment and the company results of operations. given its premium brand, starbucks may be impacted more severely than its competitors by customers trading down to lower priced coffee beverages and related products. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect starbucks business. a health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. starbucks has positioned itself as a third place between home and work where people can gather together for human connection. customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the impact of a health pandemic on starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. the company success depends substantially on the value of the starbucks brand. starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for its corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of us, where the starbucks brand is less well-known, management believes it must preserve, grow and leverage the value of the starbucks brand across its sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents 11 table of contents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value. consumer demand for the company products and its brand equity could diminish significantly if starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of its markets. the company business depends in large part on the success of its business partners and suppliers, and the company brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of the company control. the company business strategy, including its plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in its international markets. licensees are often authorized to use the starbucks logo and provide starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. the company provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver to starbucks customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the company control, including financial pressures. management believes customers expect the same quality of products and service from the company licensees as they do from starbucks and the company strives to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be attributed by customers to starbucks, thus damaging the company reputation and brand value and potentially affecting the results of operations. the company products and in particular, its coffee and tea products, are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. the company relies on international vendors to provide high quality product that comply with applicable laws. the company ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. these issues could negatively impact the company business and profitability. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the company ability to meet its financial targets. the company success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage starbucks stores. starbucks must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high quality store employees could jeopardize the company ability to meet its financial targets. effectively managing the company growth is challenging. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with the company goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the company financial targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming the company products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, could harm its business. some starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. there has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health 12 table of contents risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while starbucks has a variety of healthier choice beverage and food items, including items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for the company beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could in the future affect the company as well. any report linking starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value, immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. clean water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee beverages. the company ability to ensure a clean water supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the company could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of the company stores, could materially harm the company business and results of operations. deterioration in operating performance could lead to increased leverage, which may harm the company financial condition and results of operations. any reduction in cash flow relative to the level of the company financial obligations would result in an increase in leverage. any increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in starbucks credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase its cost of obtaining financing. in addition, an increase in leverage could raise the likelihood of a financial covenant breach which in turn could limit the company access to existing funding under its credit facility. the company ability to satisfy its operating lease obligations and make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness depends on its future performance. should the company experience deterioration in operating performance, it will have less cash flow available to meet these obligations. in addition, if such deterioration were to lead to the closure of underperforming stores, the company would need to fund the costs of terminating store leases. if starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy these financial obligations, it may be required to, among other things: seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; sell selected assets; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable starbucks to satisfy its financial obligations. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. starbucks relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm the company ability to effectively operate its business. starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems across its operations, including for management of its supply chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other processes and transactions. the company ability to effectively manage its business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could 13 table of contents cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of the company operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. failure of the company to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm its business and financial results. starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable labor laws. additional legal and regulatory requirements, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the company operates and the related cost of compliance. failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in damage to starbucks reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of the company financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in the company fiscal 2004 annual report to shareholders, and is also attached in exhibit 13 hereto.risk factors this annual report on form 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. they often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could or may. a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. starbucks is under no obligation 7 table of contents to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. these forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the company actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and risks that management currently considers immaterial may also have an adverse effect on the company. failing to meet market expectations for starbucks financial performance could cause the market price of starbucks stock to drop rapidly and sharply. management believes the price of starbucks stock reflects high market expectations for the company future operating results. any failure to meet those expectations, particularly for the growth rates for (i) comparable store sales attributable to number of transactions, average value per transaction, or both, (ii) net revenues, (iii) earnings per share or (iv) net new store openings could cause the market price of starbucks stock to drop rapidly and sharply. starbucks is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the company actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets, or projections, including: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; lack of customer acceptance of price increases necessary to cover costs or new products; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, downturns in the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or adverse impacts due to negative publicity regarding the company business practices or the health effects of consuming its products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the company control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that cannot be effectively hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high quality arabica coffee; labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and worker compensation insurance costs; construction costs associated with new store openings; information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the company business; and litigation against starbucks, particularly class action litigation; delays in store openings for reasons beyond the company control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; any material interruption in the company supply chain beyond its control, such as (i) material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the company roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or (ii) interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the company distribution channels; and 8 table of contents the impact on starbucks business of factors such as labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural disasters. starbucks is highly dependent on the financial performance of its united states operating segment. the company financial performance is highly dependent on its united states operating segment, which comprised 78% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2007. any substantial or sustained decline in these operations, if not offset by increased financial performance elsewhere, could materially adversely affect the company business and financial results. starbucks faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market. a description of the general competitive conditions in which starbucks operates appears on page 6 under competition. in the united states, the continued focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages at a low cost could attract starbucks customers and adversely affect the company sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect the company sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition from large competitors with significant resources in the united states ready-to-drink coffee beverage market could adversely affect the profitability of the cpg segment and the company results of operations. the company success depends substantially on the value of the starbucks brand. starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for its corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. management believes it must preserve and grow the value of the starbucks brand to be successful in the future, particularly outside of north america, where the starbucks brand is less well-known. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value. consumer demand for the company products and its brand equity could diminish significantly if starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of its markets. starbucks is increasingly dependent on the success of its international operating segment in order to achieve its growth targets. the company future growth will increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of its international operating segment. some or all of the company international market business units ( mbus ), which starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting the company u.s. stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the company existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the united states due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of the company international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to u.s. operations. the company international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, social and political conditions in the company markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; 9 table of contents restrictive actions of foreign or united states governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis than in the united states; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences; and local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees. the china market is important to the company long-term growth prospects - doing business there and in other developing countries can be challenging. starbucks expects the people republic of china to be its largest market outside of the united states. the company growing investments in its china operations will increase the company exposure in this market. any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations might adversely affect the company china business. many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government. china government regulates the business conducted by starbucks by restricting the scope of the company foreign investments within china and the food and beverage, retail, wholesale and distribution business conducted within china. although management believes it has structured the company china operations to comply with local laws, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if china governmental authorities were ultimately to conclude that starbucks has not complied with one or more existing or future laws or regulations, or if their interpretations of those laws or regulations were to change over time, the company affiliates could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, prohibited from opening new stores or forced to cease operations entirely. moreover, any inability of the company to enforce its intellectual property and contract rights in china courts could adversely affect the company business. additionally, starbucks plans to continue entering selected markets in other developing countries, and has recently entered russia as an important part of the projected growth of the international operating segment. some of those markets pose legal and business challenges similar to the china market, such as substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. the company earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of its business partners and suppliers, and the company reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of the company control. the company growth strategy, including its plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in its international markets. licensees are often authorized to use the starbucks logo and provide starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. the company provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver to starbucks customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the company control. management believes customers expect the same quality of products and service from the company licensees as they do from starbucks and the company strives to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be attributed by customers to starbucks, thus damaging the company reputation and brand value and potentially affecting the results of operations. 10 table of contents effectively managing the company rapid growth is challenging. the company long-term goal is to open approximately 20,000 starbucks stores in the united states and at least 20,000 stores in international markets. starbucks expects to double the size of its business over the next four to five years and achieve higher annual growth in net earnings than revenue. effectively managing growth on this scale is challenging, particularly as starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management with consistency with the company goals, philosophy and standards. growth on this scale makes it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the company growth targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. the company future growth depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. starbucks future growth also depends substantially on its ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage starbucks stores. starbucks must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high quality store employees could jeopardize the company ability to meet its growth targets. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming the company products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, could harm its business. some starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. there has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. particularly in the united states, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while starbucks has a variety of beverage and food items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for the company beverages and food products. similarly, reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could in the future affect the company as well. any report linking starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value, immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. clean water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee beverages. the company ability to ensure a clean water supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the company could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of the company stores, could materially harm the company business and results of operations. 11 table of contents significant increases in the market price or decreases in availability of high quality arabica coffee or fluid milk could harm the company business and financial results. a discussion of the sources and availability of coffee of the quality sought by starbucks and fluid milk appears on page 5 under product supply. any significant increase in the market price or any significant decrease in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee or fluid milk could adversely affect the company business and financial results. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect starbucks business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. starbucks has positioned itself as a third place between home and work where people can gather together for human connection. customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the impact of a health pandemic on starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. starbucks relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm the company ability to effectively operate its business. starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems across its operations, including for management of its supply chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other processes and transactions. the company ability to effectively manage its business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of the company operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. failure of the company internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. starbucks management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. internal control over financial reporting includes: (i) maintaining reasonably detailed records that accurately and fairly reflect the company transactions; and (ii) providing reasonable assurance that the company (a) records transactions as necessary to prepare the financial statements, (b) makes receipts and expenditures in accordance with management authorizations, and (c) would timely prevent or detect any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that the company would prevent or detect a misstatement of the company financial statements or fraud. the company rapid growth and entry into new, globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the company system of internal control over financial reporting. any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the company ability to report its financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. a significant financial reporting failure could cause an immediate loss of investor confidence in starbucks and a sharp decline in the market price of its common stock. 12 table of contents increased leverage may harm the company financial condition and results of operations. as of september 30, 2007, starbucks had approximately $5.0 billion in minimum future rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases and $3.1 billion of total liabilities on a consolidated basis. included in total liabilities are aggregate principal indebtedness of $710 million under outstanding commercial paper and $550 million under ten-year notes issued in an august 2007 underwritten registered public offering. the company will incur additional operating lease obligations, largely driven by new store openings, and may incur additional indebtedness, subject to the limitations contained in its financing agreements. the recent increase in the company level of financial obligations has had, and any future increase (which may or may not occur) will have, several important effects on the company future operations, such as: additional cash requirements to support the payment of rents and interest on outstanding indebtedness; possible increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; possible limitations on the company ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes; and possible limitations on the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its industry. the company ability to satisfy its lease obligations and make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness depends on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting its consolidated operations, many of which are beyond the company control. if starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy its financial obligations, it may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; to sell selected assets; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable starbucks to satisfy its financial obligations. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. the company existing strong cash flow and capital structure mitigate the current risk associated with leverage. management expects future cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, debt service costs, and capital expenditures required to support projected new store openings and investments in existing and new markets. in addition, management does not expect to increase leverage to levels that would inhibit the company access to capital markets in the event of short-falls in anticipated operating cash flow. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 38 table of contentsrisk factors starbucks is including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the act ) for forward-looking statements. this 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the act. forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. they often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, may, aims, intends, or projects. a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. these forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the company actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. failure to meet market expectations for starbucks financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price of starbucks stock. the company failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to comparable store sales, net revenues, operating margins, and earnings per share, will likely result in a decline in the market price of starbucks stock. 8 table of contents the company may not be successful in implementing important new strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact on its business and financial results. in fiscal 2008, the company undertook the development and implementation of several important strategic initiatives as part of a transformation strategy designed to drive long-term shareholder value and improve starbucks results of operations, including: improving the current state of the us business by refocusing on the customer experience in the stores, new products and store design elements, and new training and tools for the company store partners to help them give customers a superior experience; slowing the company pace of us store openings and closing a number of underperforming us store locations, enabling starbucks to renew its focus on its store-level unit economics; re-igniting the emotional attachment with customers and restoring the connections customers have with starbucks coffee, brand, people and stores; and re-aligning starbucks organization and streamlining the management to better support customer-focused initiatives and reallocating resources to key value drivers. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully implement its new strategic initiatives or that its transformation plan will result in improved results of operations. if the company does not successfully implement its new strategic initiatives, or if its transformation plan does not achieve its intended results, the company may experience a material adverse impact on its business and financial results. starbucks is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the company actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets, plans, or projections, including: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, downturns in the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending, including the ongoing global financial crises; customers trading down to lower priced products within starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or adverse impacts due to negative publicity regarding the company business practices or the health effects of consuming its products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the company control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that cannot be effectively hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high- quality arabica coffee (see also the discussion on page 6 under product supply ); labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and worker compensation insurance costs; litigation against starbucks, particularly class action litigation; construction costs associated with new store openings; 9 table of contents information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the company business; and delays in store openings for reasons beyond the company control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; any material interruption in the company supply chain beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the company roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the company distribution channels; and the impact on starbucks business of factors such as labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural disasters. the global economic crisis could adversely affect the company business and financial results and have a material adverse affect on starbucks liquidity and capital resources. as the recent global financial crisis has broadened and intensified, other sectors of the economy have been adversely impacted and a severe global recession now appears likely. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, the company will face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009 because starbucks customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home prices. any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact the company financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the global financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of them could potentially have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity and capital resources, including starbucks ability to issue commercial paper and to raise additional capital if needed, the ability of banks to honor draws on starbucks credit facility, or otherwise negatively impact the company business and financial results. starbucks is highly dependent on the financial performance of its united states operating segment. the company financial performance is highly dependent on its united states operating segment, which comprised 76% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2008. the company experienced a substantial down-turn in traffic in its us stores in fiscal 2008, which adversely affected the operating results of the us segment and the company as a whole. if the us segment is unable to improve its financial performance, the company business and financial results will continue to be adversely affected. starbucks may not fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from the restructuring measures announced in july 2008. in july 2008, the company announced several restructuring measures as part of the company multi-faceted plan to transform its business and improve results of operations, including a plan to close approximately 600 underperforming company-operated stores in the us market, a restructuring of the australia market, and certain leadership and non-store organization changes. there can be no assurance that the company will fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from these restructuring measures. the estimated costs and charges associated with the us store closures are based on management assumptions and projections and may vary materially based on various factors, including the timing of store closures, the outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties, the company ability to place affected partners (employees) into available positions at other starbucks stores, and other changes in management assumptions and projections. as a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in the company not fully realizing the anticipated positive impact to the company future financial results from such us store closures. further, to the extent that the company is unable to improve its financial performance in fiscal 2009, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. 10 table of contents starbucks is increasingly dependent on the success of its international operating segment in order to achieve its growth targets. the company future growth will increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of its international operating segment. some or all of the company international market business units ( mbus ), which starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of the international operating segment may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the company large mbus. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting the company us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the company existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the united states due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of the company international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to us operations. the company international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in the company markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or united states governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as the company forecasts; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences; and local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing counties, which are important to the company long-term growth prospects. starbucks international segment is highly dependent on the financial performance of its canada, japan and uk markets; any significant increases in costs or significant declines in net revenues or profit contribution from one or more of these markets could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the international segment. starbucks canada, japan and uk markets account for a significant portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the company international operating segment. any significant decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the entire starbucks international segment, if not partially or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other two major markets. 11 table of contents starbucks faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market. a description of the general competitive conditions in which starbucks operates appears on page 7 under competition. in the united states, the continued focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages at a low cost has attracted starbucks customers and could, if the numbers become large enough, adversely affect the company sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect the company sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition from large competitors with significant resources in the united states packaged coffee and tea, and ready-to-drink coffee beverage market could adversely affect the profitability of the cpg segment and the company results of operations. given its premium brand, starbucks may be impacted more severely than its competitors by customers trading down to lower priced coffee beverages and related products. the company success depends substantially on the value of the starbucks brand. starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for its corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. management believes it must preserve and grow the value of the starbucks brand to be successful in the future, particularly outside of north america, where the starbucks brand is less well-known. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value. consumer demand for the company products and its brand equity could diminish significantly if starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of its markets. the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the company ability to meet its financial targets. the company success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage starbucks stores. starbucks must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high quality store employees could jeopardize the company ability to meet its financial targets. the company business depends in large part on the success of its business partners and suppliers, and the company brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of the company control. the company business strategy, including its plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in its international markets. licensees are often authorized to use the starbucks logo and provide starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. the company provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver to starbucks customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the company control. management believes customers expect the same quality of products and service from the company licensees as they do from starbucks and the company strives to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be attributed by customers to starbucks, thus damaging the company reputation and brand value and potentially affecting the results of operations. effectively managing the company growth is challenging. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management with 12 table of contents consistency with the company goals, philosophy and standards. significant growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the company financial targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming the company products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, could harm its business. some starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. there has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. particularly in the united states, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while starbucks has a variety of healthy choice beverage and food items, including items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for the company beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could in the future affect the company as well. any report linking starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value, immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. clean water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee beverages. the company ability to ensure a clean water supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the company could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of the company stores, could materially harm the company business and results of operations. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect starbucks business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. starbucks has positioned itself as a third place between home and work where people can gather together for human connection. customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the impact of a health pandemic on starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. increased leverage and/or increases in interest rates may harm the company financial condition and results of operations. as of september 28, 2008, starbucks had approximately $5.1 billion in minimum future rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases and $3.2 billion of total liabilities on a consolidated basis. included in total liabilities are aggregate principal indebtedness of $713 million under outstanding commercial paper and revolving credit facility borrowings, and $550 million under ten-year notes maturing in august 2017. future increases in the company 13 table of contents level of financial obligations, if any, would have several important effects on the company future operations, such as: additional cash requirements to support the payment of rents and interest on outstanding indebtedness; possible increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; possible limitations on the company ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes; and possible limitations on the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its industry. the company ability to satisfy its lease obligations and make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness depends on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting its consolidated operations, many of which are beyond the company control. if starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy its financial obligations, it may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; to sell selected assets; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable starbucks to satisfy its financial obligations. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in starbucks credit ratings. a reduction in its credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could limit the company availability of additional financing and increase its cost of obtaining financing. starbucks relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm the company ability to effectively operate its business. starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems across its operations, including for management of its supply chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other processes and transactions. the company ability to effectively manage its business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of the company operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. failure of the company to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm its business and financial results. starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable labor laws. additional legal and regulatory requirements, such as those arising under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the company operates and the related cost of compliance. failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in damage to starbucks reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of the company financial statements. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described above actually occurs, starbucks business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the factors listed 14 table of contents above are not exhaustive. other sections of this 10-k include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact starbucks business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, starbucks operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict the impact of all these factors on starbucks business, financial condition or results of operation or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this 10-k and any other public statement made by starbucks or its management may turn out to be incorrect. starbucks expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 41 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. other sections of this 10-k include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; 10 table of contents customers trading down to lower priced products within starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate that adversely affect consumer spending; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding our business practices or the health effects of consuming our products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially hedged, such as fluid milk, and high quality arabica coffee; labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers compensation insurance costs; litigation, particularly class action litigation; or construction costs associated with new store openings; any material interruption in our supply chain beyond our control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, or trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop, and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; and the impact on our business due to labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability and natural disasters. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. 11 table of contents we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: successfully leveraging starbucks brand outside the company-operated store base, including an increased focus on international licensed stores, starbucks via &reg; ready brew, and the seattle best coffee brand; focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms; accelerating the growth of our global consumer products business as we transition from our licensing relationships with kraft foods global, inc.; balancing disciplined global store growth while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; and executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to starbucks consumers and partners. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant competition in each of our channels and markets. in the us, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the us packaged coffee and tea and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets could adversely affect the profitability of the cpg segment. (see also the discussion under competition in item 1). we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our us operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our us operating segment, which comprised approximately three-quarters of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2010. although the us segment operating results have improved significantly, primarily due to our restructuring efforts (substantially completed in 2009) and to improved revenue trends, if the operational improvements are not sustained going forward and/or the revenue trends slow or decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our international operating segment in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of the international operating segment. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of our international operating segment may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of our large mbus. in particular, our canada, japan and uk mbus account for a significant portion of the net revenue and earnings of our international operating segment and a decline in the performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of our international operating segment. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting our us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which we and our licensees expand may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in our existing markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to us operations. 12 table of contents our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; and delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, in fiscal 2010, the base c coffee commodity price increased markedly. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices (see discussion of product supply in item 1 above) and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. although less material to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities including but not limited to those related to food inputs and energy, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 13 table of contents failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. a health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public gathering places, such as our stores, in the event of a health pandemic, and governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores. the impact of a health pandemic on us might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of us, where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. our business depends in large part on the success of our business partners and suppliers, and our brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of our control. our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, and licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in our international markets. licensees are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be attributed by customers to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations. our products and, in particular, our coffee and tea products, are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. a vendor or supplier failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. 14 table of contents the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees who we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, could harm our business. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could in the future affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. clean water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, could materially harm our business and results of operations. effectively managing growth is challenging and places significant strain on our management and employees and our operational, financial, and other resources. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our global consumer products business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet our financial targets, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. 15 table of contents if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures with third parties. these transactions create risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; problems retaining key personnel; operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; the potential impairment of tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; the difficulty of incorporating an acquired business into our business and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest in the event of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, or take on contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing in our stores, starbucks cards, online business and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations and tax requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable labor laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. deterioration in operating performance could lead to increased leverage, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. any reduction in cash flow relative to the level of our financial obligations would result in an increase in leverage. any increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing. in addition, an increase in leverage could raise the likelihood of a financial covenant breach which in turn could limit our access to existing funding under our credit facility. our ability to satisfy our operating lease obligations and make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends on our future performance. should we experience deterioration in operating performance, we will have less cash flow available to meet these obligations. in addition, if such deterioration were to lead to the 16 table of contents closure of underperforming stores, we would need to fund the costs of terminating store leases. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy these financial obligations, we may be required to, among other things: seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; discontinue our common stock dividend; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to satisfy our financial obligations. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 38 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below. if any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. other sections of this 10-k include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation. our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. any one or more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; 9 table of contents customers trading down to lower priced products within starbucks, and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate that adversely affect consumer spending; declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products; or adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding our business practices or the health effects of consuming our products; cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially hedged, such as fluid milk, and high quality arabica coffee; labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers compensation insurance costs; adverse outcomes of current or future litigation; or construction costs associated with new store openings; any material interruption in our supply chain beyond our control, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants or the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, or trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop, and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; the impact on our business due to labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability and natural disasters; and deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing. economic conditions in the us and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. any resulting decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. 10 table of contents we may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. there is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: successfully leveraging starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores, starbucks- and tazo-branded keurig &reg; k-cup &reg; portion packs coffees and teas, starbucks via &reg; ready brew, and the seattle best coffee brand; focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms; accelerating the growth of our global consumer products business now that we have transitioned from our distribution arrangement with kraft foods global, inc.; balancing disciplined global store growth while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; and executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to starbucks consumers and employees. we face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. the specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant competition in each of our channels and markets. accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. in the us, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. increased competition in the us packaged coffee and tea and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets could adversely affect the profitability of the cpg segment. we are highly dependent on the financial performance of our us operating segment. our financial performance is highly dependent on our us operating segment, as it comprised approximately two thirds of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2011. if revenue trends slow or decline our business and financial results could be adversely affected, and because the us segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and for returning cash to shareholders. we are increasingly dependent on the success of our international operations in order to achieve our growth targets. our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our international operations. some or all of our international market business units ( mbus ), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. the performance of our international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of our large mbus. in particular, our canada, japan, uk, and china mbus account for a significant portion of the net revenue and earnings of our international operations and a decline in the performance of any of these mbus could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations. additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of international mbus are different than those affecting our us stores and licensees. tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some international markets may not 11 table of contents embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in our us market or other international markets. occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the us due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to us operations. additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; interpretation and application of laws and regulations; restrictive actions of foreign or us governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; import or other business licensing requirements; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new us and international regulations; in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural differences; local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; and delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. the price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, over the last two years, the base c coffee commodity price has increased markedly. the high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the c price. this premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. increases in the c coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially 12 table of contents mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. although less material to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities including but not limited to those related to food inputs and energy, are important to our operations. increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our success depends substantially on the value of our brands. we believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. the starbucks brand has been highly rated in several global brand value studies. to be successful in the future, particularly outside of us, where the starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. even isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust, such as contaminated food or privacy breaches particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value. consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. our business depends in large part on the success of our business partners and suppliers, and our brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside of our control. our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, and licensee and partnership relationships, particularly in our international markets. licensees are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. we believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a company-operated or licensed store. any shortcoming of a starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience,the safety of beverages or food or compliance with laws and regulations, may be attributed by customers to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations. our food and beverage products, are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations. we rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the us. a vendor or supplier failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. these issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. in addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. 13 table of contents the loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees who we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores. if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, whether or not accurate, could harm our business. some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. particularly in the us, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. while we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses, food tampering and food contamination, either during manufacturing, packaging or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. if customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering or contamination, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or food contamination, even those occurring solely at the restaurants or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. a decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, as well adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. a health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public gathering places, such as our stores, in the event of a health pandemic, and governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. there is also a risk of customer contamination from being served food or beverage by an employee who has been infected with the disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores. the impact of a health pandemic on us might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale, use or license of their products and services. 14 table of contents effectively managing growth both in our retail store business and our global consumer products business is challenging and places significant strain on our management and employees and our operational, financial, and other resources. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our global consumer products business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures with third parties. these transactions create risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; problems retaining key personnel; operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; the potential impairment of tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; the difficulty of incorporating an acquired business into our business and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest in the event of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, or take on contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. we rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing in our stores, starbucks cards, online business and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. security breaches of our employees or customer private data could also adversely impact our reputation, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations and tax requirements, including those imposed by the sec, nasdaq, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations commodity prices, availability and general risk conditions and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial risk management in item 7 of this report. 42 table of contents