quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth on pages 46 to 53 of the 2002 annual report to shareholders under the caption management discussion and 34 analysis risk management and on pages 71 to 74 of such annual report in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth on pages 54 to 64 of the 2003 annual report to shareholders under the caption management discussion and analysis risk management and on pages 80 to 84 of such annual report in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, and is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 90 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k and in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the annual report on form 10-k. 90 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. we have achieved record earnings per common share in each of our last two fiscal years, reflecting a favorable trading environment in ficc, an improvement in the trading environment for equities and an increase in investment banking activity. an adverse change in these market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following: we have been operating in a low interest rate market for the past several years. increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses. we have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency, commodity and equity positions and our merchant banking investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. from time to time, we have incurred significant trading losses in periods of market turbulence. conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our investment banking business. pricing and other competitive pressures have continued, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have increased. in addition, the trend in the underwriting business toward multiple book runners and co-managers handling transactions, where previously there would have been a single book runner, may adversely affect our business and reduce our revenues. reductions in the level of the equity markets also tend to reduce the value of our clients portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets. even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management and in the incentive and management fees we receive. 19 table of contents concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. this risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven business. for example, large blocks of securities are increasingly being sold in block trades rather than on a marketed basis, which increases the risk that goldman sachs may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices and may incur significant losses as a result. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. we also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. in addition, competitive pressures and other industry factors, including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading, could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. in our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. this may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. in addition, competitive pressures have been particularly intense in the context of block trades. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. our liquidity may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to sell assets or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and businesses in many ways. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to 20 table of contents terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. an inability of the goldman sachs group, inc. to access funds from its subsidiaries could adversely affect its ability to meet its obligations. the goldman sachs group, inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including gs co., are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the goldman sachs group, inc. regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that the goldman sachs group, inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, to the extent that the goldman sachs group, inc. (or any other entity) holds equity interests in the firm regulated or unregulated subsidiaries, its rights as an equity holder to the assets of such subsidiaries are subject to the satisfaction of the claims of the creditors of such subsidiaries. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by a deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth of the entities to which we have credit exposures. the scope of our lending businesses has also been expanding and includes loans to small and mid-size businesses, which are not traditional goldman sachs clients. as a clearing member firm, we finance our client positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. in particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect goldman sachs. mandatory physical settlement of derivative transactions may expose us to losses if we are unable to deliver the underlying security or obligation. like many participants in the derivatives marketplace, we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives, that require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security or obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security or obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security or obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. as a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security or obligation within the required contractual timeframe for delivery. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as 21 table of contents well as increased costs to the firm. the derivatives industry is working on various proposals to address this issue. a failure of the industry to address this issue could result in an unwillingness of counterparties to enter into certain types of derivative transactions, which could negatively impact our businesses. unconfirmed derivative transactions and unauthorized assignments of derivatives by counterparties may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. the growth in the derivatives industry, including credit derivatives and other swap transactions, has also exposed us and other industry participants to an increasing incidence of counterparties seeking to unilaterally assign transactions without required prior notice and consent. although industry participants have taken steps to eliminate this practice and its effects on a going-forward basis, including through the adoption of the 2005 isda novation protocol, it is not yet clear how effective these efforts will be, and the steps that have been taken by the industry do not resolve the issue for derivative contracts that were previously entered into. unauthorized assignments could introduce uncertainty as to the status of a transaction, impair our ability to evaluate credit risk and impede trade reconciliations, which could lead to a higher number of failed transactions and collateral call defaults. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, damage our reputation and cause losses. shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. for example, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. the transactions we process have become increasingly complex and often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we will increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by goldman sachs or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of goldman sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact on the cities where those buildings are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including new york, london, frankfurt, hong kong and tokyo, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. 22 table of contents our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. for example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. in addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest. however, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, the sec and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. for example, in june 2005, the nasd filed with the sec proposed rules that would require certain disclosures to be contained in fairness opinions, and would mandate specific procedures to be followed by member firms in connection with issuing these opinions. while we have policies and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest are appropriately addressed, it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. goldman sachs, as a participant in the financial services industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business or those of our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. for example, the sec has adopted rules requiring the registration of certain hedge funds advisers under the investment advisers act of 1940, and the sec or other regulators may seek to further regulate hedge funds in the future. it is possible that these or other future regulatory developments rules may have a significant impact on our trading, prime brokerage and other business relationships with hedge funds, or on the growth of our prime brokerage and securities lending businesses. in addition, under the european union transparency directive (directive 2004/109/ec), which is due to be implemented by member states by january 2007, issuers of securities admitted to listing on regulated markets in the european union may, depending upon the manner of implementation, be required to provide 23 table of contents expanded ongoing financial disclosure, which could have an adverse impact on our ability or the ability of certain of our non-european union-based clients to maintain the listing of these securities or to conduct securities offerings in europe. furthermore, the sec regulation nms, which was adopted in 2005 and is expected to become effective in 2006, introduces significant changes to the regulation of trading on securities exchanges and marketplaces. while it is too early to predict the impact that regulation nms will have, it could result in the imposition of additional compliance costs on our trading businesses and alter the competitive environment in which these businesses function. many of our businesses are operating in an uncertain and difficult regulatory environment. firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and outside the united states. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. this environment has led some of our clients to be less willing to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased scrutiny by regulators. in addition, while the firm always strives to fully comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, this regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. this environment has led us and our competitors to modify transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our execution of some types of transactions. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against goldman sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to goldman sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. the interaction between our equity research analysts and investment banking businesses has been subject to new requirements and litigation. as discussed under business regulation in part i, item 1 of the annual report on form 10-k, the research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of regulatory scrutiny that has led to restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at securities firms. gs co. has agreed to a global settlement to resolve investigations into equity research analysts alleged conflicts of interest pursuant to which gs co. has been subject to certain restrictions and undertakings. certain of these requirements and restrictions have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses. litigation and regulatory scrutiny of complex, structured financial transactions remain high. regulators, both within and outside the united states, continue to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have brought enforcement actions against a number of financial institutions in connection with such transactions. in some of the enforcement actions, clients of the financial institutions allegedly engaged in accounting, disclosure or other violations of the securities laws, and the financial institutions allegedly facilitated these improprieties by entering into transactions with the clients. we seek to create innovative solutions to address our clients needs, and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured transactions with clients. while we have policies and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the structured transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that certain of these transactions could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, structured finance transactions will make our clients less willing to enter into these transactions, and will adversely affect our business in this area. 24 table of contents we are subject to regulatory inquiries and investigations into market timing, late trading and other activities involving mutual funds. in recent years, there have been industry-wide and other investigations by federal and state authorities concerning market timing, late trading and other activities involving mutual funds and investment advisers. federal and state authorities have made informational requests regarding trading practices broadly across all of the major fund companies and broker-dealers. goldman sachs has received requests for information and has been fully cooperating with those authorities. while we believe that we have in place reasonable measures to detect and deter disruptive and abusive trading practices and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we cannot predict the course that these inquiries and areas of focus may take or the impact that any new laws or regulations governing mutual funds may have on our businesses. our specialist business is subject to a global settlement and civil actions. regulators have also been conducting investigations into certain trading practices of specialist firms, including our specialist unit. in march 2004, certain nyse specialist firms, including our specialist unit, agreed to a global settlement with the sec and nyse to resolve charges that the firms violated certain federal securities laws and nyse rules in connection with their activities as nyse specialists during the years 1999 through 2003. the global settlement involves, among others, restitution and penalties, a censure, cease and desist order and certain undertakings with respect to our specialist unit systems and procedures. the settlement did not resolve the related civil actions discussed under legal proceedings specialist matters in part i, item 3 of the annual report on form 10-k, or potential regulatory charges against individuals. as a result of this global settlement and any related developments, other investigations or any new laws or regulations governing specialists, our specialist businesses may be adversely affected and the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets related to these businesses may be impaired. employee misconduct is difficult to detect and prevent and may have an adverse effect on our businesses. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may adversely affect our investment banking businesses. financial scandals in recent years have led to insecurity and uncertainty in the financial markets and contributed to declines in capital markets. in response to these scandals, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules of the sec, nyse and nasdaq have necessitated significant changes to corporate governance and public disclosure. these provisions generally apply to companies with securities listed on u.s. securities exchanges, and some provisions apply to non-u.s. issuers with securities traded on u.s. securities exchanges. to the extent that private companies, to avoid becoming subject to these requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected and our ability to successfully exit some of our merchant banking investments may be adversely affected. similarly, the imposition of those provisions on non-u.s. issuers has made these issuers less likely to list their securities in the united states or undertake merger or acquisition transactions that would result in their securities being listed in the united states. these measures may result in less activity by non-u.s. issuers in the united states and, as a result, the u.s. capital markets and our investment banking business may be adversely affected. 25 table of contents the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the nyse and nasdaq corporate governance rules have imposed significant compliance costs on public companies and have increased the cost of conducting many types of capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. in particular, companies that are or are planning to be public are incurring significant expenses in complying with the sec and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have some difficulty accessing the capital markets. these factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our investment banking business. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. we believe that we will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. u.s. federal legislation, which significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a u.s. bank, may accelerate this consolidation and further increase competition. this trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees is intense. in addition, competition with businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for the most highly skilled individuals has been intense. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. changes in the business environment may cause us to move employees from one business to another or to reduce the number of employees in certain of our businesses; this may cause temporary disruptions as our employees adapt to new roles and may reduce our ability to take advantage of improvements in the business environment. in addition, current and future laws (including laws relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our ability to move responsibilities or personnel from one jurisdiction to another. this may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or potential efficiencies. 26 table of contents we may be unable to fully integrate future acquisitions or joint ventures into our businesses and systems. we expect to grow in part through acquisitions and joint ventures. we have undertaken joint ventures, including in australia and china, and may enter into additional joint ventures from time to time. to the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. our power generation interests subject us to the risks associated with owning power generation facilities. we own interests in electric power generation facilities. as a result of these interests and future investments that we may make in the power generation industry, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. we are a relatively new entrant to the electric power generation industry. as a result, we have less expertise and experience in owning and managing power generation facilities than many of our competitors and we may not be successful in owning and managing our power generation facilities. in particular, in the future we may be unable to attract and retain qualified independent contractors and employees. the operation of power generation facilities may be disrupted. the continued operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. although our power generation facilities contain various redundancies and backup mechanisms, a breakdown or failure may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements or otherwise operating as planned. the power companies in which we own interests are parties to numerous agreements with third parties, including lenders, suppliers of raw materials, service providers and utilities, which impose significant obligations on the power companies. some of these obligations may be difficult for the power companies to satisfy, depending, in some cases, on market conditions and other factors. for example, during 2004 we faced difficulties in obtaining and retaining adequate coal inventories at many power generation facilities due to supply constraints on coal and a rationing of services by railroads. any failure by the power company to satisfy or obtain waivers of their obligations under any of these agreements could cause them to lose the benefits provided by the agreements, subject them to litigation, result in reputational harm or impair their operations or financial results. in addition, the operations or financial results of these power companies could be adversely affected by the failure of any of these third parties to perform their contractual obligations to the power companies. we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. in the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy market by federal, state and local authorities and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in electric power generation. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to power generation, and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory proceedings arising out of our power generation business. in particular, our power generation activities are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, natural 27 table of contents resources, site remediation and health and safety. compliance with these environmental laws and regulations may require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation facilities. in certain instances, compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to cease or curtail operations of one or more of the power generation facilities in which we have an ownership interest. our failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations or the associated requirements and provisions of the permits and licenses may result in the assessment of severe civil or criminal liabilities against us and the need to expend substantial additional capital for compliance or remediation. in particular, the environmental protection agency recently issued the clean air interstate rule, which imposes additional controls over power generation facility emissions and requires significant reductions of emissions by 2010 (for phase i) and 2015 (for phase ii). we are assessing the impact of this legislation, but it may require us to make significant capital expenditures on our power generation facilities. other legislation, rules and requirements may be imposed on our power generation activities by the federal government or one or more states. insurance covering some of these environmental risks with respect to our power generation facilities may not be available, and the proceeds from insurance recovery, if any, may not be adequate to cover our liabilities in a particular incident. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by an environmental or a health and safety problem at one of our facilities. we are subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. we may not have insurance against these risks, and, in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover our losses. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. in addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events, including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. our businesses and operations are increasingly involved in emerging markets throughout the world, and we expect this trend to continue. in the last several years, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 97 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. 97 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. while we have achieved record earnings per common share in each of our last three fiscal years, reflecting a favorable trading and investing environment and an increase in investment banking activity, an adverse change in these market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, low 20 table of contents inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, declines in business confidence, increases in inflation, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets, natural disasters or pandemics or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following: we have been operating in a low interest rate market for the past several years. increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses. we have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency, commodity and equity positions, and our merchant banking investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. from time to time, we have incurred significant trading losses in periods of market turbulence. conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our investment banking business. pricing and other competitive pressures have continued, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have increased. in addition, the trend in the underwriting business toward multiple book runners and co-managers handling transactions, where previously there would have been a single book runner, has adversely affected our business and reduced our revenues. reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets. increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products. even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management and in the incentive and management fees we receive as well as reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. this risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven business. for example, in recent years large blocks of securities have increasingly been sold in block trades rather than on a marketed basis, which increases the risk that goldman sachs may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices and may incur significant losses as a result. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. we also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. 21 table of contents the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. in addition, competitive pressures and other industry factors, including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading, could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. in our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. this may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. in addition, competitive pressures have been particularly intense in the context of block trades. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. in addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events, including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. in the past, these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. an increase in volatility would increase our measured risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce certain of our business activities. in such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. our liquidity and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets, by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an inability of the goldman sachs group, inc. to access funds from its subsidiaries. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to sell assets or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. the financial 22 table of contents instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the goldman sachs group, inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including gs co., are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the goldman sachs group, inc. regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that the goldman sachs group, inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by a deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth of the entities to which we have credit exposures. as a clearing member firm, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. in particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. in the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect goldman sachs. 23 table of contents we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients, with new asset classes and in new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client base and with new asset classes and new markets. for example, we have begun providing loans to small and mid-sized businesses, increased our exposure to subprime mortgages and are transacting business and investing in new emerging markets. in addition, we are increasingly offering complex structured products and alternative investments to a wider investor base, both directly and through third-party distribution channels. furthermore, a number of our businesses, including our proprietary investing and merchant banking activities, cause us to directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of, public services, such as airports, toll roads, shipping ports and electric power generation facilities, both within and outside the united states. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives, that require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. as a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, damage our reputation and cause losses. shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we will increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our 24 table of contents exposure to operational failure or termination of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure or termination. any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by goldman sachs or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of goldman sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including new york, london, frankfurt, hong kong, tokyo and bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients and counterparties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have in place secure capabilities for all of our clients and counterparties. an interception or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client or counterparty could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. we are exposed to similar risks arising from the interception of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from, or the misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information by, vendors, service providers and other third parties who may receive such information from us, and our efforts to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place may not be successful. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own proprietary investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm. the sec, the nasd, other federal and state regulators and regulators outside the united states, including in the united kingdom and japan, have announced their intention to increase their 25 table of contents scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. there have been recent public reports that the department of justice is conducting an investigation regarding joint participation by certain private equity firms and other financial institutions in certain leveraged buyouts, referred to as club deals. in addition, certain complaints filed against firms other than goldman sachs allege the violation of antitrust laws arising from their club deal arrangements. a number of class action complaints have also been filed in connection with certain specific club deal transactions which name the relevant club deal participants among the defendants, including goldman sachs affiliates in several cases, and generally allege that the transactions constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by the target company and that the club participants aided and abetted such breach. we may become subject to further litigation or regulatory scrutiny in the future in this regard. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. goldman sachs, as a participant in the financial services industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. regulatory changes could lead to business disruptions, could require us to change certain of our business practices and could expose us to additional costs and liabilities as well as reputational harm. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the annual report on form 10-k. firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and outside the united states. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions. for example, regulators, both within and outside the united states, continue to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have brought enforcement actions against a number of financial institutions in connection with such transactions. we seek to create innovative solutions to address our clients needs, and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured transactions with clients. this environment has led some of our clients to be less willing to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased scrutiny by regulators and has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. this environment also has led us and our competitors to modify transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our execution of some types of transactions. while we have policies and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that certain transactions could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions or that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, transactions 26 table of contents will make our clients less willing to enter into these transactions with us, and will adversely affect our business. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against goldman sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to goldman sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of the annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. for example, federal and state authorities and other regulatory entities, including the nasd, have made informational requests regarding market timing, late trading and other activities broadly across all of the major fund companies and broker-dealers, including goldman sachs. while we believe that we have in place reasonable measures to detect and deter disruptive and abusive trading practices and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we cannot predict the course that these inquiries and areas of focus may take or the impact that any new laws or regulations governing mutual funds may have on our businesses. also, in march 2004, certain nyse specialist firms, including our specialist unit, agreed to a settlement with the sec and nyse to resolve charges that the firms violated certain federal securities laws and nyse rules in connection with their activities as nyse specialists during the years 1999 through 2003. the settlement did not resolve the related civil actions discussed under legal proceedings specialist matters in part i, item 3 of the annual report on form 10-k, or potential regulatory charges against individuals. in addition, we have received requests for information from regional stock exchanges and options exchanges regarding specialist activities. as a result of the settlement and any related developments, other investigations or any new laws or regulations governing specialists, our specialist businesses may be adversely affected and the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets related to these businesses may be impaired. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. we believe that we will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. u.s. federal legislation, which significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a u.s. bank, has accelerated this consolidation and further increased competition. this trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. as our business expands into new business areas and new geographical regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. 27 table of contents the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. the nyse adoption of its hybrid market for trading securities may increase pressure on our equities business as customers execute more of their nyse-related trades electronically. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for qualified employees is intense, particularly in emerging markets. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. in addition, current and future laws (including laws relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our ability to move responsibilities or personnel from one jurisdiction to another. this may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or potential efficiencies. our power generation interests subject us to the risks associated with owning power generation facilities. the operation of our power generation facilities may be disrupted for many reasons, many of which are outside our control, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. in addition, these facilities could be adversely affected by the failure of any of third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations, including the failure to obtain raw materials necessary for operation at reasonable prices. market conditions or other factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders and utilities, which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own such facilities. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and may result in litigation or other reputational harm. our power generation facilities are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. in the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy market by federal, state and local authorities and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal proceedings involving companies engaged in electric power generation. in addition, we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to power generation, including having to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees, and application for, 28 table of contents and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation facilities. in certain instances, compliance with applicable laws and regulations may require us to cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power generation facilities. our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. we may not have insurance against these risks or other risks, including environmental risks, that such facilities face, and, in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover our losses. our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory proceedings, particularly those related to the environmental matters, arising out of our power generation business, as well as by the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly involved in emerging markets throughout the world, and we expect this trend to continue. in the last several years, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 106 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. 106 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. while we have achieved record earnings per common share in each of our last four fiscal years, reflecting a favorable trading and investing environment and an increase in investment banking activity, an adverse change in these market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following: increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses, and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. for example, beginning in the second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets in the united states and elsewhere resulted in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the 21 table of contents availability of credit and a corresponding increase in funding costs. credit spreads widened significantly, affecting volatility and liquidity in the debt and equity markets, particularly in the markets for mortgage-related securities and non-investment-grade debt securities and loans. this negatively impacted prices of these securities and loans (as well as commitments for these loans), and, to the extent that we sought to do so, our ability to sell these securities and loans (and loan commitments). the sudden decline in liquidity and prices of these types of securities and loans made it generally more difficult to value them. these conditions have persisted through the end of 2007 and we cannot predict how long these conditions will exist or how our businesses may be affected. we have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency, commodity and equity positions, and our merchant banking investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. from time to time, we have incurred significant trading losses in periods of market turbulence. conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred in the second half of 2007, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. we seek to finance our less liquid assets on a secured basis and disruptions in the credit markets are likely to make it harder and more expensive to fund these assets. in difficult credit markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities. this could cause us to curtail our business activities and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability. our investment banking business is affected by changes in market conditions. industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our investment banking business. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. the lack of available credit or increased cost of credit may adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of our clients portfolios. reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets. increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products. even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management, including through redemptions, and in the incentive and management fees we receive and might make it more difficult to attract new investors. 22 table of contents market volatility has been relatively low in recent years, although it generally increased in the second half of 2007. an increase in volatility increases our measured risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce certain of our business activities. in such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk. the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. in our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. this may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. in addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events, including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. in the past, these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants. in addition, we are increasingly investing our own capital in our alternative investment and merchant banking funds, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets, by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an inability of the goldman sachs group, inc. to access funds from its subsidiaries. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or 23 table of contents unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the goldman sachs group, inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including gs co., are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the goldman sachs group, inc. regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that the goldman sachs group, inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth and size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. in addition, as part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are 24 table of contents difficult to detect or foresee. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect goldman sachs. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. this risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven business. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. for example, we regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses, including large blocks of securities sold in block trades rather than on a marketed basis. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. in the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. we believe that we will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. u.s. federal legislation, which significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a u.s. bank, has accelerated this consolidation and further increased competition. this trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. as we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment banking business, as well as our other businesses, have continued to increase. for example, the trend in the underwriting business toward multiple book runners and co-managers handling transactions, where previously there would have been a single book runner, has adversely affected our business and reduced our revenues. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. in particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. finally, competitive pressures and other industry factors, including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading, have caused and could continue to cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. 25 table of contents we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, in recent years we have begun providing loans to small and mid-sized businesses, originating and acquiring life insurance policies and originating residential mortgages, and we are increasingly transacting business and investing in new regions, including a wider range of emerging markets. in addition, we are increasingly offering complex structured products, including securitized derivatives, and alternative investments to a wider investor base, including retail investors, both directly and through third-party distribution channels. furthermore, a number of our businesses, including our proprietary investing and merchant banking activities, cause us to directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of, public services, such as airports, toll roads, shipping ports, electric power generation facilities and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. recent market conditions are likely to lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets, and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives that require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. as a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery, particularly if default rates increase from the historically low levels over the past several years. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, 26 table of contents data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we will increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by goldman sachs or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of goldman sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, frankfurt, hong kong, tokyo and bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients and counterparties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients and counterparties. an interception or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client or counterparty could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. we are exposed to similar risks arising from the interception of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from, or the misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information by, vendors, service 27 table of contents providers and other third parties who may receive such information from us, and our efforts to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place may not be successful. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own proprietary investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm. the sec, the nyse, finra, other federal and state regulators and regulators outside the united states, including in the united kingdom and japan, have announced their intention to increase their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. there have been complaints filed against financial institutions, including goldman sachs, alleging the violation of antitrust laws arising from their joint participation in certain leveraged buyouts, referred to as club deals, as discussed under legal proceedings private equity-sponsored acquisitions litigation in part i, item 3 of the annual report on form 10-k. in addition, a number of class action complaints have also been filed in connection with certain specific club deal transactions which name the relevant club deal participants among the defendants, including goldman sachs affiliates in several cases, and generally allege that the transactions constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by the target company and that the club participants aided and abetted such breach. we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation to which we are a party, and we may become subject to further litigation or regulatory scrutiny in the future in this regard. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. goldman sachs, as a participant in the financial services industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. regulatory changes could lead to business disruptions, could require us to change certain of our business practices and could expose us to additional costs and liabilities as well as reputational harm. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the annual report on form 10-k. our firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements at a number of levels, as described above under business regulation in part i, item 1 of the annual report on form 10-k. as a consolidated supervised entity, we are subject to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. a number of our subsidiaries, including gs co., gsec, gsi, gs bank usa, our irish banking entities, gsjcl and goldman, sachs co. ohg, are separately subject to their own minimum capital 28 table of contents requirements imposed by various regulatory bodies. complying with these requirements may cause us to limit our business activities or require us to liquidate assets or otherwise raise capital in a manner that adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. while we currently disclose these ratios to the sec and the fsa and to rating agencies, we may be required or may determine to disclose publicly our group-wide consolidated supervised entity capital ratios beginning in mid-2008. it is unclear how our ratios will compare to those of our competitors, or how our investors, counterparties or clients may react to any difference, positive or negative, in such ratios. firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and outside the united states. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions. for example, regulators, both within and outside the united states, continue to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have brought enforcement actions against a number of financial institutions in connection with such transactions. we seek to create innovative solutions to address our clients needs, and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured transactions with clients. this environment has led some of our clients to be less willing to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased scrutiny by regulators and has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. this environment also has led us and our competitors to modify transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our execution of some types of transactions. while we have policies and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that certain transactions could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions or that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, transactions will make our clients less willing to enter into these transactions with us, and will adversely affect our business. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against goldman sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to goldman sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of the annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading 29 table of contents markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. the nyse adoption and continued refinement of its hybrid market for trading securities may increase pressure on our equities business as customers execute more of their nyse-related trades electronically. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for qualified employees is intense. this is particularly the case in emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. in addition, current and future laws (including laws relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our ability to move responsibilities or personnel from one jurisdiction to another. this may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or potential efficiencies. our power generation interests and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks associated with power generation activities. the power generation facilities that we own and those that we operate, as well as our other power-related activities, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. in the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy market by federal, state and local authorities and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal proceedings involving companies engaged in electric power generation and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. in addition, we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to power generation, including having to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation facilities. in certain instances, compliance with applicable laws and regulations may require us to cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power generation facilities. our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. we may not have insurance against these risks or other risks, including environmental risks, that such facilities face, and, in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover our losses. our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory proceedings, particularly those related to environmental matters, arising out of our power generation business, as well as by the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events or negative publicity associated with our power-related activities. the operation of our power generation facilities may be disrupted for many reasons, many of which are outside our control, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and performance below expected levels of output 30 table of contents or efficiency. in addition, these facilities could be adversely affected by the failure of any of our third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations, including the failure to obtain raw materials necessary for operation at reasonable prices. market conditions or other factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders and utilities, which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own such facilities. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and may result in litigation or other reputational harm. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 105 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the annual report on form 10-k. 105 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. in the past twelve months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. this was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. the global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. the decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. in addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. the markets for securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans, credit card receivables and other assets have for the most part been closed. in 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. we have long proprietary positions in a number of our businesses. these positions are accounted for at fair value, and the declines in the values of assets have had a direct and large negative impact on our earnings in fiscal 2008. revenues from our asset management and merchant banking businesses were also negatively impacted by declines in the values of assets managed for our clients. the ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. while the numerous steps taken by governments, regulators and central banks have helped reduce these funding costs somewhat and increase our access to traditional and new sources of liquidity, increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity have 27 table of contents negatively impacted our earnings and our ability to engage in certain activities. in particular, in the latter half of 2008, we were unable to raise significant amounts of long-term unsecured debt in the public markets, other than as a result of the issuance of securities guaranteed by the fdic under the tlgp. we are able to have outstanding approximately $35 billion of debt under the tlgp that is issued prior to june 30, 2009. it is unclear when we will regain access to the public long-term unsecured debt markets on customary terms or whether any similar program will be available after the tlgp scheduled june 2009 expiration. however, we continue to have access to short-term funding and to a number of sources of secured funding, both in the private markets and through various government and central bank sponsored initiatives. in december 2008, moody investors service downgraded our long-term debt credit rating and standard poor downgraded both our long-term and short-term debt credit ratings, in each case with an outlook of negative. we have been able to fund our operations during fiscal 2008. our global core excess (our cash and cash equivalent positions maintained to ensure short-term liquidity) and our capital ratios are at levels significantly higher than in the past. nevertheless, our credit spreads have widened and the average maturity of our new funding has decreased. recently, we have relied to a significant extent for our long-term unsecured funding on emergency funding programs implemented by governments and central banks. it is unclear whether or for how long these facilities will be extended and what impact termination of these facilities could have on our ability to access funding. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and funding risk in part ii, item 7 of our annual report on form 10-k. furthermore, the increased riskiness of assets due to increases in the volatility of asset prices, coupled with market concerns about the levels of financial institution leverage ratios, as well as fewer attractive business opportunities, have caused us to significantly decrease the size of our balance sheet and to increase the size of our global core excess. both of these steps may have a negative effect on our profitability, until reversed. concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the credit markets, together with the forced merger or failure of a number of major commercial and investment banks, have at times caused a number of our clients to reduce the level of business that they do with us, either because of concerns about the safety of their assets held by us or simply arising from a desire to diversify their risk or for other reasons. some clients have withdrawn some of the funds held at our firm or transferred them from deposits with gs bank usa to other types of assets (in many cases leaving those assets in their brokerage accounts held with us). some counterparties have at times refused to enter into certain derivatives and other long-term transactions with us or have requested additional collateral. these instances were more prevalent during periods when the lack of confidence in financial institutions was most widespread and have become significantly less frequent in recent months in the wake of government and central bank actions, greater understanding of client account protections and higher limits of fdic insurance. in addition, we have acquired some new clients as a result of the difficulties experienced by other financial institutions. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we raised $20.75 billion in equity, comprised of a $5.75 billion public common stock offering, a $5 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance to berkshire hathaway inc. and certain affiliates and a $10 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance under the u.s. treasury tarp capital purchase program. while this additional capital provides further funding to our business and we believe has improved investor perceptions with regard to our financial position, it has increased our equity and the number of actual and diluted outstanding shares of our common stock as well as our preferred dividend requirements, which will reduce our earnings per share and the return on our equity unless our earnings increase sufficiently. in addition, as of the end of 2008, the united states, europe and japan are all in a recession. business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and 28 table of contents the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. unemployment has increased significantly. while lower interest rates, increased volatility and substantial increases in trading volumes have positively impacted earnings in a number of our trading businesses, declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence have negatively impacted many of our other businesses, particularly our investment banking, merchant banking, asset management, credit products, mortgage, leveraged lending and equity principal strategies businesses. in particular, our investment banking business has been affected during the last twelve months by the decrease in equity and debt underwritings and the decline in both announced and completed mergers and acquisitions. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. overall, during fiscal 2008, the business environment has been extremely adverse for many of our businesses and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. until they do, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by declining asset values. many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses, our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in our ficc segment, and our equity principal strategies business, have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and most other asset classes. in addition, many of our market-making and other businesses in which we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our specialist businesses, commit large amounts of capital to maintain trading positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as currencies, commodities and equities. because nearly all of these investing and trading positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. in our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. 29 table of contents we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our trading businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding trading positions is increased or the size of trading positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do so. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing commercial paper, promissory notes and long-term debt, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets, including our less liquid assets, on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and taking principal positions, including market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. the lack of available credit and the increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. our businesses have been and may continue to be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by var and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn more on each trade. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly (as has been the case recently), it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements which increases our funding costs. 30 table of contents our businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our trading businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our asset management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investing businesses may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our asset management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (against the performance of benchmarks or of our competitors) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the asset management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we have in the past provided financial support to certain of our investment products in difficult market circumstances and, at our discretion, we may decide to do so in the future for reputational or business reasons, including through equity investments or cash infusions. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. recent market conditions have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they 31 table of contents may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we make investments directly through various of our businesses in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, we invest our own capital in our merchant banking, alternative investment and infrastructure funds, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of our annual report on form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our 32 table of contents long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps is relatively new, although very large, and it has proven to be extremely volatile and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of gs co., gs bank usa and gs bank europe, subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors and counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of our annual report on form 10-k. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as have the breadth and size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 33 table of contents concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. this risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate client-driven business. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over the course of the past year as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment banking business, as well as our other businesses, have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. 34 table of contents derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other otc derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. 35 table of contents despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or the buildings of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, frankfurt, hong kong, tokyo and bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be seen as affiliates of ours. 36 table of contents we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. in recent years, firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and outside the united states. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions. in addition, new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients may adversely affect our businesses. recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional regulation. regulatory changes could lead to business disruptions, could impact the value of assets that we hold or the scope or profitability of our business activities, could require us to change certain of our business practices and could expose us to additional costs (including compliance costs) and liabilities as well as reputational harm, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, make it more difficult for us to distinguish ourselves from competitors. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of our annual report on form 10-k. our status as a bank holding company and the operation of our lending and other businesses through gs bank usa subject us to additional regulation and limitations on our activities, as described in business regulation banking regulation in part i, item 1 of our annual report on form 10-k, as well as some regulatory uncertainty as we apply banking regulations and practices to many of our businesses. the application of these regulations and practices may present us and our regulators with new or novel issues. our firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements at a number of levels, as described above under business regulation in part i, item 1 of our annual report on form 10-k. as a bank holding company, we will be subject to capital requirements based on basel i as opposed to the requirements based on basel ii that applied to us as a cse. complying with these requirements may require us to liquidate assets or raise capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. in addition, failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on our financial condition. our agreements with the u.s. treasury and berkshire hathaway inc. impose restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase our common stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital markets. in october 2008, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the u.s. treasury as part of its tarp capital purchase program. prior to october 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the preferred stock or the u.s. treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the u.s. treasury will be required for us to, among other things, 37 table of contents increase our common stock dividend or repurchase our common stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). we have also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the u.s. treasury and to berkshire hathaway inc. pursuant to which we have agreed to lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of our annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn. in addition, employment-related claims typically increase in periods when we have reduced the total number of employees. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. the nyse adoption and continued refinement of its hybrid market for trading securities may increase pressure on our equities business as clients execute more of their nyse-related trades electronically. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. 38 table of contents in fiscal 2008, we significantly reduced compensation levels. in addition, the market price of our shares of our common stock declined very significantly during the year. a substantial portion of our annual bonus compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years been paid in the form of equity-based awards. in addition, we reduced the number of employees across nearly all of our businesses during the latter portion of the year. the combination of these events could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees. our power generation interests and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks associated with power generation activities. the power generation facilities that we own and those that we operate, as well as our other power-related activities, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. we may incur substantial costs (including being required to cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power generation facilities) in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to electric power generation and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas, including having to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation facilities. our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, these facilities could be adversely affected by the failure of any of our third party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations, including the failure to obtain raw materials necessary for operation at reasonable prices. market conditions or other factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders and utilities, which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own such facilities. in addition, we may not have insurance against the risks that such facilities face or the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and may result in litigation or other reputational harm. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging market 39 table of contents countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 127 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of our annual report on form 10-k. 127 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. in the past several years, these conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very negatively. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. this was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. the global markets during this period were characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor and public confidence. the decline in asset values caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. while the markets have generally stabilized and improved since the first quarter of 2009, asset values for many asset classes have not returned to previous levels. business, financial and economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels, lending activities and the housing markets, continue to be negatively impacted by the events of recent years. market conditions led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. financial institution failures or near-failures resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and some have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default, the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral and the impact of risky assets and transactions on capital requirements. in addition, some financial institutions are unwilling to sell assets where the value of such assets are not marked-to-market and would have to be sold at a loss because they are worth significantly less than their current book value. the markets for securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans, credit card receivables and other assets, which for the most part were closed during 2008 and the beginning of 2009, have very recently begun to reopen. since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor and public confidence. in addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory actions that have been taken or proposed to deal with what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root causes of the financial crisis, including proposals relating to financial institution capital requirements and compensation practices, proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions, as well as proposals calling for increased regulatory scrutiny and coordination with respect to the financial services industry and markets. it is presently unclear which of these proposals will be adopted and in what form and whether the net effect of such proposals will in fact be positive or negative for the financial markets over either the short or long-term. 26 table of contents during 2009, the economies of the united states, europe and japan experienced a recession. business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and many companies were, and some continue to be, in serious difficulty due to reduced consumer spending and low levels of liquidity in the credit markets. national and local governments are facing difficult financial conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs. declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence have negatively impacted many of our businesses, including our investment banking, merchant banking, asset management, leveraged lending and equity principal strategies businesses. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. the business environment became generally more favorable after the first quarter of 2009, but there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue in the near or long term. if they do not, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses, our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in our ficc segment, and our equity principal strategies business, have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and most other asset classes. in addition, many of our market-making and other businesses in which we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making businesses, commit large amounts of capital to maintain trading positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as currencies, commodities and equities. because nearly all of these investing and trading positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs. in our exchange-based market-making businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. 27 table of contents we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our trading businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding trading positions is increased or the size of trading positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, promissory notes and commercial paper, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and taking principal positions, including market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. our businesses have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by var and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn more on each trade. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements which in turn increases our funding costs. 28 table of contents our businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our trading businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our asset management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investing businesses may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our asset management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (against the performance of benchmarks or of our competitors) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the asset management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we have in the past provided financial support to certain of our investment products in difficult market circumstances and, at our discretion, we may decide to do so in the future for reputational or business reasons, including through equity investments or cash infusions. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. 29 table of contents the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we make investments directly through various of our businesses in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, we invest our own capital in our merchant banking, alternative investment and infrastructure funds, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. 30 table of contents our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps is relatively new, although very large, and it has proven to be extremely volatile and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc. and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of gs co., gs bank usa and gs bank europe, subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged 31 table of contents assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. this risk may increase to the extent we expand our market-making, trading, investing and lending businesses. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. to the extent regulatory or market developments lead to an increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions. these or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. 32 table of contents pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment banking business, as well as our other businesses, have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other otc derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. 33 table of contents as described further in business regulation banking regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation or the federal reserve board proposal on incentive compensation policies, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may also be required to make additional disclosure with respect to the compensation of employees, including non-executive officers, in a manner that directly or indirectly results in the identity of such employees and their compensation being made public. any such additional public disclosure of employee compensation may also make it difficult to attract and retain talented employees. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. in addition, recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the united states and internationally for changes in the regulation and taxation of the financial services industry, including increased capital or new liquidity or leverage requirements for banks. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. the impact of such developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or elected officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, often results in some type of investigation by regulators, 34 table of contents legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth. this updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities under proposed and potential regulation, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or the buildings of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings are located. 35 table of contents nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, frankfurt, hong kong, tokyo and bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be seen as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. 36 table of contents substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase in periods when we have reduced the total number of employees. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our exchange-based market-making businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our power generation interests and our physical commodities businesses, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. we engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, natural gas, metals (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns can lead to additional regulation that may increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related businesses and investments, particularly electric power generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of storage 37 table of contents facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities could adversely affect our business. in addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our insurance businesses to significant losses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 121 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of our annual report on form 10-k. 121 table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. in the past several years, these conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very negatively. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor and public confidence. in addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory actions that have been taken to deal with what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root causes of the financial crisis, including laws and regulations relating to financial institution capital requirements and compensation practices, restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny. in some cases, additional taxes have been (or have been proposed to be) imposed on certain financial institutions. many of the regulations that are required to implement recently adopted legislation (including the dodd-frank act) are still being drafted or are not yet in effect; therefore, the exact impact that these regulations will have on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows is presently unclear. business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and many companies were, and some continue to be, in serious difficulty due to reduced consumer spending and low levels of liquidity in the credit markets. national and local governments are facing difficult financial conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs. declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, reduced volatility, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence have negatively impacted many of our businesses. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. the business environment continued to improve during 2010, although there were several periods of market disruption, but there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue in the near or long term. if they do not, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 18 table of contents our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities and equities activities. because nearly all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, promissory notes and commercial paper, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. 19 table of contents our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn more on each trade. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements, both of which in turn increase our funding costs. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. 20 table of contents our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, we invest our own capital in private equity, debt, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. 21 table of contents further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. certain rating agencies have indicated that the dodd-frank act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed level of government support and therefore result in ratings downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including goldman sachs. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps, although very large, has proven to be extremely volatile and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. 22 table of contents group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc. and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs co., gs bank usa, gs bank europe and goldman sachs execution clearing, l.p. subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 23 table of contents concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. the dodd-frank act will require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which could significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act are expected to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. 24 table of contents we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we are increasingly transacting business and investing in new regions, including a wider range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as power generation facilities, physical commodities and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. recent market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. 25 table of contents our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. as described further in business regulation banking regulation and regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the fsa, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may also be required to make additional disclosure with respect to the compensation of employees, including non-executive officers, in a manner that directly or indirectly results in the identity of such employees and their compensation being made public. any such additional public disclosure of employee compensation may also make it difficult to attract and retain talented employees. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. the impact of such developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. 26 table of contents we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets. this updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. 27 table of contents despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bangalore, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase in periods when we have reduced the total number of employees. there have been a number of highly publicized cases, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. 28 table of contents the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our power generation interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. we engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments, particularly electric power generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could adversely affect our activities. in addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. 29 table of contents in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our insurance activities to significant losses. 30 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. 96 table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. in the past several years, these conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very negatively. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. in 2011, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, and about u.s. growth and uncertainty regarding the u.s. federal debt ceiling, resulted in significant volatility and declines in the prices of most financial asset classes. in addition, declines in the value of sovereign debt held by financial institutions, as well as increased capital and other regulatory requirements and higher funding costs, have negatively impacted the cost of borrowing and access to debt markets for many financial institutions, including us. such developments have negatively affected client activity. since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor and public confidence. in addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory actions that have been taken to deal with what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root causes of the financial crisis, including laws and regulations relating to financial institution capital requirements and compensation practices, restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny. in some cases, additional taxes have been (or have been proposed to be) imposed on us and certain other financial institutions. many of the regulations that are required to implement this legislation (including the dodd-frank act) are still being drafted or are not yet in effect; therefore, the exact impact that these regulations will have on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows is presently unclear. national and local governments continue to face difficult financial conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs. declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence have negatively impacted many of our businesses. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 21 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities and equities activities. because nearly all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. if financial markets decline, revenues from our variable annuity products are likely to decrease. in addition, unanticipated changes in reinvestment returns, policy lapses or mortality rates may also impact earnings from our insurance activities. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. 22 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing promissory notes and commercial paper or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn more on each trade. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements, both of which in turn increase our funding costs. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 23 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent in 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, we invest our own capital in private equity, debt, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. 24 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. certain rating agencies have indicated that the dodd-frank act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed level of government support and therefore result in ratings downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including goldman sachs. as of december 2011, each of moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and ratings and investment information, inc. had issued a negative outlook on our long-term credit ratings. as of december 2011, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments in an aggregate amount of $1.30 billion and $2.18 billion, respectively. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps, although very large, has proven to be extremely volatile and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc. and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co., gs bank usa, gs bank europe and gsec subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 26 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. the dodd-frank act will require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which could significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act are expected to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we are increasingly transacting business and investing in new regions, including a wider range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as power generation facilities, physical commodities and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. recent market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. 28 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as described further in business regulation banking regulation and regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the fsa, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may also be required to make additional disclosure with respect to the compensation of employees, including non-executive officers, in a manner that directly or indirectly results in the identity of such employees and their compensation being made public. any such additional public disclosure of employee compensation may also make it difficult to attract and retain talented employees. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity and margin requirements, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. the impact of such developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel 3, will significantly alter the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act most likely to affect our businesses are: the prohibition on proprietary trading and the limitation on the sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge funds and private equity funds by bank holding companies and other banking entities; increased capital requirements; increased regulation of and restrictions on over-the-counter derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; the prohibition on certain swaps-based activities through an insured depository institution; limitations on affiliate transactions; the establishment and annual updating of a resolution plan; the creation of a new systemic oversight body, the fsoc; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the liquidity coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio under basel 3 may adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if the requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, the attorneys general of a number of states have filed lawsuits against financial institutions alleging, among other things, that the centralized system of recording mortgages and designating a common entity as the mortgage holder is in violation of state law, and other authorities have indicated that they are contemplating similar actions. if this system and related practices are deemed invalid, it may call into question the validity or enforceability of certain mortgage-related obligations under securitizations and other transactions in which we have participated, negatively impact the market for mortgages and mortgage-related products and our mortgage-related activities, or subject us to additional costs or penalties. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets. this updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. 30 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bangalore, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and prevent against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our power generation interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. we engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments, particularly electric power generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. 32 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could adversely affect our activities. also, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in our life and our property catastrophe insurance activities, losses related to unforeseen or catastrophic events could significantly exceed the related reserves and reinsurance proceeds. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. 106 goldman sachs 2011 form 10-k table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. since 2008, these conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very negatively. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. in 2011 and 2012, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, and about u.s. growth and uncertainty regarding u.s. federal fiscal policies, resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor and public confidence. in addition, numerous legislative and regulatory actions have been taken to deal with what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root causes of the financial crisis, including laws and regulations relating to financial institution capital requirements and compensation practices, restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny. additional taxes have been, and may in the future be, imposed on us and certain other financial institutions and on financial transactions in which we engage. many of the regulations that are required to implement this legislation (including the dodd-frank act) are still being developed or are not yet in effect; therefore, the exact impact that these regulations will have on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows is presently unclear. national and local governments continue to face difficult financial conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the timing and final details of regulatory reform, as well as a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity which, together with low levels of volatility, has adversely affected many of our businesses. our revenues, profitability and return on equity are significantly below 2007 levels, due primarily to the post-2008 economic, financial and political conditions (including the uncertainty about future regulations) and their impact on the markets and the level of client activity. in addition, our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by changes resulting from the financial crisis, including increased capital requirements, minimum liquidity levels and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on the type of and manner in which certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. financial institution returns have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the final interpretation and implementation of new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to the new landscape, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a risk that such changes will, at least in the near-term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. 24 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, regulatory certainty and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty in u.s. federal fiscal policy; uncertainty about the timing and nature of regulatory reforms; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities and equities activities. because nearly all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. if financial markets decline, revenues from our variable annuity products are likely to decrease. in addition, unanticipated changes in reinvestment returns, policy lapses or mortality rates may also impact earnings from our insurance activities. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing promissory notes and commercial paper or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas and increase our capital requirements, both of which in turn increase our funding costs. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. 26 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent in 2011 and 2012, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. certain rating agencies have indicated that the dodd-frank act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed level of government support and therefore result in ratings downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including goldman sachs. as of december 2012, each of moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and ratings and investment information, inc. had issued a negative outlook on our long-term credit ratings. as of december 2012, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps, although very large, has proven to be extremely volatile and at times may lack a high degree of structure or transparency. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. 28 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer, bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc. and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are incorporated or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are incorporated or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co., gs bank usa and gsec subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. the dodd-frank act will require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which could significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act are expected to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is highly competitive. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. 30 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as power generation facilities, physical commodities and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. recent market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. as described further in business regulation banking regulation and regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the fsa, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity and margin requirements, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. 32 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel 3, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act most likely to affect our businesses are: the prohibition on proprietary trading and the limitation on the sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge funds and private equity funds by bank holding companies and other banking entities; increased capital requirements; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; the prohibition on engaging in certain swaps-based activities through an insured depository institution; limitations on affiliate transactions; the annual updating of a resolution plan; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the liquidity coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio under basel 3 may adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if the requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. in addition, the attorneys general of a number of states have filed lawsuits against financial institutions alleging, among other things, that the centralized system of recording mortgages and designating a common entity as the mortgage holder is in violation of state law, and other authorities have brought similar actions or indicated that they are contemplating bringing such actions. if this system and related practices are deemed invalid, it may call into question the validity or enforceability of certain mortgage-related obligations under securitizations and other transactions in which we have participated, negatively impact the market for mortgages and mortgage-related products and our mortgage-related activities, or subject us to additional costs or penalties. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets. this updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bangalore, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. 34 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage. the increased use of mobile technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our commodities activities, particularly our power generation interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. we engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments, particularly electric power generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could adversely affect our activities. also, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. 36 goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. in our life and our property catastrophe insurance activities, losses related to unforeseen or catastrophic events could significantly exceed the related reserves and reinsurance proceeds. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. goldman sachs 2012 form 10-k 113 table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. since 2008, these conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very negatively. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. since 2011, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, and about u.s. growth and uncertainty regarding u.s. federal fiscal and monetary policies, the u.s. federal debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor and public confidence. in addition, numerous legislative and regulatory actions have been taken to deal with what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root causes of the financial crisis, including laws and regulations relating to financial institution capital, liquidity and leverage requirements and compensation practices, restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny. additional taxes have been, and may in the future be, imposed on us and certain other financial institutions and on financial transactions in which we engage. many of the regulations that are required to implement this legislation (including the dodd-frank act) are still being developed or are not yet in effect; therefore, the exact impact that these regulations will have on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows is presently unclear. certain of these regulations have or will soon come into effect, and liquidity in financial markets may be negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures adjust to these new requirements. national and local governments continue to face difficult financial conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the timing and final details of regulatory reform, as well as a lack of consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity which, together with low levels of volatility, has adversely affected many of our businesses. our revenues, profitability and return on equity are significantly below 2007 levels, due primarily to the post-2008 economic, financial and political conditions (including the uncertainty about future regulations) and their impact on the markets and the level of client activity. in addition, our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by changes resulting from the financial crisis, including increased capital requirements, minimum liquidity levels and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on the type of and manner in which certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. financial institution returns have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the final interpretation and implementation of new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to the new landscape, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a risk that such changes will, at least in the near-term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. 24 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, regulatory certainty and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty in u.s. federal fiscal or monetary policy, the u.s. federal debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government; uncertainty about the timing and nature of regulatory reforms; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. because substantially all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments, promissory notes and commercial paper or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations and capital ratios. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas and increase our capital requirements, both of which in turn increase our funding costs. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions, as well as uncertainty relating to the u.s. debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government, can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. 26 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management and risk factors in part ii, item 7 of the 2013 form 10-k. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. certain rating agencies have indicated that the dodd-frank act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed level of government support and therefore result in ratings downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including goldman sachs. as of december 2013, each of standard &amp; poor ratings services and ratings and investment information, inc. had issued a negative outlook on our long-term credit ratings. as of december 2013, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $911 million and $2.99 billion, respectively. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of the firm at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for a further discussion of our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of the 2013 form 10-k. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps, although very large, has proven to be extremely volatile and at times may lack a high degree of structure or transparency. 28 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the federal reserve board source of strength policy, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a consolidated basis. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co., gs bank usa and gsec subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels at particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, we may incur additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions discussed above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2013 form 10-k for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivatives contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 30 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. the dodd-frank act will require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which could significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the eu, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act are expected to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a very significant volume of transactions occur among members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a very negative reputational impact and, if we are found to have engaged in such activities, subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially very significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities, mines, commodity warehouses and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. deteriorating market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. 32 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation banking regulation and regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of the 2013 form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the pra, the fca, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. as discussed further under business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2013 form 10-k, in december 2013, final rules were adopted to implement the provisions of the dodd-frank act referred to as the volcker rule, which will prohibit proprietary trading and will limit our sponsorship of, and investment in, covered funds. based on what we know as of the date of this filing, we do not expect the impact of the prohibition on proprietary trading to be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. however, given that the rule is highly complex, and its full impact will not be known until market practices are fully developed, the implementation of the rule and the related market changes could negatively impact our businesses and expose us to increased liability for inadvertent breaches and reporting failures. among the other aspects of the dodd-frank act most likely to affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; the prohibition on engaging in certain swaps-based activities through an insured depository institution; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution plans; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the liquidity coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio under basel iii may also adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if the requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. in addition, the attorneys general of a number of states have filed lawsuits against financial institutions alleging, among other things, that the centralized system of recording mortgages and designating a common entity as the mortgage holder is in violation of state law, and other authorities have brought similar actions or indicated that they are contemplating bringing such actions. if this system and related practices are deemed invalid, it may call into question the validity or enforceability of certain mortgage-related obligations under securitizations and other transactions in which we have participated, negatively impact the market for mortgages and mortgage-related products and our mortgage-related activities, or subject us to additional costs or penalties. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2013 form 10-k. 34 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. certain regulators, including the sec, have announced policies that make it more likely that they will seek an admission of wrongdoing as part of any settlement of a matter brought by them against a regulated entity or individual, which could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation and could adversely affect our reputation and ability to do business in certain jurisdictions with so-called bad actor disqualification laws and could have other negative effects. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at very high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base, and our geographical reach expands, and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increases, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or the firm. systems enhancements and updates, as well as the requisite training, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited, to natural disasters, war, civil unrest, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bangalore, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. 36 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2013 form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2013 form 10-k for information regarding certain mortgage-related contingencies. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. additionally, governmental entities are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities. recently, significant settlements by several large financial institutions with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. we engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments, particularly transportation and storage of physical commodities and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas. compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could adversely affect our activities. also, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. if that occurs, the firm may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as the firm may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. 38 goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of the 2013 form 10-k. goldman sachs 2013 form 10-k 119 table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. these conditions can change suddenly and very negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, regulatory certainty and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty in u.s. federal fiscal or monetary policy, the u.s. federal debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government; uncertainty about the timing and nature of regulatory reforms; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. since 2011, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, and about changes in market conditions or actual changes in market conditions, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the timing and final implementation of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity, which adversely affects many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on whether and how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. although interest rates are at or near historically low levels, financial institution returns have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets may also be negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures adjust to new regulations. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the final interpretation and implementation of new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to the new landscape, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a risk that such changes will, at least in the near-term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, as a result of regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. as discussed further under business regulation, in part i, item 1 of the 2014 form 10-k, in december 2013, final rules were adopted to implement the provisions of the dodd-frank act referred to as the volcker rule, which will prohibit proprietary trading and will limit our sponsorship of, and investment in, covered funds. based on what we know as of the date of this filing, we do not expect the impact of the prohibition on proprietary trading to be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. however, given that the rule is highly complex, and its full impact will not be known until market practices are fully developed, the implementation of the rule and the related market changes could negatively impact our businesses and expose us to increased liability for inadvertent breaches and reporting failures. among the other aspects of the dodd-frank act most likely to affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the liquidity coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio under basel iii may also adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if the requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. as discussed under business regulation capital and liquidity requirements payment of dividends and stock repurchases in part i, item 1 of the 2014 form 10-k, group inc. proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the federal reserve board as part of the ccar process. if the federal reserve board objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, group inc. could be prohibited from taking such capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. 26 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security (including cyber security), which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. in addition, the attorneys general of a number of states have filed lawsuits against financial institutions alleging, among other things, that the centralized system of recording mortgages and designating a common entity as the mortgage holder is in violation of state law, and other authorities have brought similar actions or indicated that they are contemplating bringing such actions. if this system and related practices are deemed invalid, it may call into question the validity or enforceability of certain mortgage-related obligations under securitizations and other transactions in which we have participated, negatively impact the market for mortgages and mortgage-related products and our mortgage-related activities, or subject us to additional costs or penalties. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. for a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2014 form 10-k. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. because substantially all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. in addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations and capital ratios. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. 28 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. for a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management and risk factors in part ii, item 7 of the 2014 form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with goldman sachs or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. certain rating agencies have indicated that the dodd-frank act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed level of government support and therefore result in ratings downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including goldman sachs. as of december 2014, each of standard &amp; poor ratings services and ratings and investment information, inc. had issued a negative outlook on our long-term credit ratings. as of december 2014, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $1.07 billion and $2.82 billion, respectively. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of the firm at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for a further discussion of our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of the 2014 form 10-k. 30 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps, although very large, has proven to be extremely volatile and at times may lack a high degree of structure or transparency. regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. recently, numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed, and additional regulations are under consideration, to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations and others being considered address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes. these may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including new guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions, as well as proposals relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and total loss-absorbing capacity. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain until implementation of post-financial crisis regulatory reform is complete. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the federal reserve board source of strength policy, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co., gs bank usa and gsec subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to gs bank usa to support obligations to gs bank usa. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to reduce our reliance on short-term funding, increase capital or liquidity levels at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, we may incur additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions discussed above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2014 form 10-k for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions. 32 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the united states and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc. security holders. as discussed under business regulation insolvency of an insured depository institution or a bank holding company, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, the rights of group inc. creditors would be determined under the orderly liquidation authority, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between the orderly liquidation authority and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debt holders. although the fdic single point of entry strategy is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors in connection with the resolution of a large financial institution, it is possible that this may not occur. one goal of the fdic single point of entry strategy is to resolve a large financial institution in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debt holders (including holders of structured notes) and other creditors of the top-tier holding company and permit the holding company subsidiaries to continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy could result in greater losses to group inc. security holders, including holders of structured notes and other debt securities, than the losses that could result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy for the firm. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the united kingdom and the eu, have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debt holders. u.s. and non-u.s. regulators are also considering requirements that large financial institutions and certain of their subsidiaries maintain minimum amounts of equity and debt (total loss-absorbing capacity) that would absorb losses in the event of failure. our resolution plan assumes that, in certain adverse scenarios, group inc. would recapitalize certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness. if these recapitalization actions were unsuccessful in stabilizing these subsidiaries, group inc. financial condition would be adversely impacted and equity and debt holders of group inc. may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the recapitalizations did not occur. in august 2014, the federal reserve board and the fdic indicated that group inc., along with other large industry participants, had certain shortcomings in the 2013 resolution plans that must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans. if group inc. is unable to effectively address these shortcomings, the federal reserve board and the fdic could, after any permitted resubmission, find our resolution plan not credible and require us to hold more capital, change our business structure or dispose of businesses, which could have a negative impact on our ability to return capital to shareholders, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivatives contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which is likely to significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the eu, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act are expected to lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. 34 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. this trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a very significant volume of transactions occur among members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a very negative reputational impact and, if we are found to have engaged in such activities, subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially very significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities, mines, commodity warehouses and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. deteriorating market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. these activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda protocol, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. the isda protocol contemplates adoption of implementing regulations by various u.s. and non-u.s. regulators, and the isda protocol impact will depend on, among other things, how it is implemented. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. this is particularly the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. 36 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as described further in business regulation bank holding company regulation and regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of the 2014 form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. certain regulators, including the sec, have announced policies that make it more likely that they will seek an admission of wrongdoing as part of any settlement of a matter brought by them against a regulated entity or individual, which could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation and could adversely affect our reputation and ability to do business in certain jurisdictions with so-called bad actor disqualification laws and could have other negative effects. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as cyber attacks and human error, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at very high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. as our client base, and our geographical reach expands, and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increases, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering such errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or the firm. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries systems enhancements and updates, as well as the requisite training, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited, to natural disasters, war, civil unrest, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could very negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several recent highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third-parties, including actions by foreign governments. 38 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on human beings as our greatest resource, and from time-to-time, they make mistakes that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our other procedures which are intended to prevent and detect such errors. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment. we strive to eliminate such human errors through training, supervision, technology and by redundant processes and controls. human errors, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for the firm. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2014 form 10-k for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2014 form 10-k for information regarding certain mortgage-related contingencies. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. additionally, governmental entities are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries recently, significant settlements by several large financial institutions with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. further, the sec has announced a policy of seeking admissions of liability in certain settled cases, which could adversely impact the defense of private litigation or result in penalties or limitations in business under bad actor statutes in jurisdictions in which we operate. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities and arrange for their storage and transport. in our investing and lending businesses, we invest in entities that engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of numerous commodities. the commodities involved in these activities and investments may include crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. 40 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. if that occurs, the firm may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as the firm may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, there has recently been significant conflict between russia and ukraine, and sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and eu on certain individuals and companies in russia. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as ebola, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. 42 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of the 2014 form 10-k. 114 goldman sachs 2014 form 10-k table of contentsrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. these conditions can change suddenly and negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, regulatory and market conditions which result in transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, clear regulations and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty in u.s. federal fiscal or monetary policy, the u.s. federal debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government; the extent of and uncertainty about the timing and nature of regulatory reforms; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or default rates; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. in 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. since 2011, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, and about changes in interest rates and other market conditions or actual changes in interest rates and other market conditions, including market conditions in china, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the scope, timing and final implementation of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity, which adversely affects many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on whether and how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. although interest rates are at or near historically low levels, financial institution returns have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures adjust to new regulations. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the final interpretation and implementation of new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to the new landscape, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a significant risk that such changes will, at least in the near term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. among other things, as a result of regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. such limitations or conditions may negatively impact our profitability. separate and apart from the impact on the scope and profitability of our business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws and regulations, in particular those laws and regulations adopted since 2008, has involved and will continue to involve significant amounts of time, including that of our senior leaders and that of an increasing number of dedicated compliance and other reporting and operational personnel, all of which may negatively impact our profitability. if there are new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, requirements relating to recovery and resolution planning, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act that have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the liquidity coverage ratio, the net stable funding ratio, requirements relating to long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, covered funds by the volcker rule may adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if these requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. as described under business regulation capital and liquidity requirements payment of dividends and stock repurchases in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k, group inc. proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the federal reserve board as part of the ccar process. if the federal reserve board objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, group inc. could be prohibited from taking some or all of the proposed capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. 26 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. to the extent that we have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a financial adviser, investment adviser or in other roles for individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations could have materially negative legal, regulatory and reputational consequences. for information about the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. because substantially all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of credit products, including leveraged loans, and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. a classic example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. our credit businesses have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. a lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of which can increase transaction risk or decrease the profitability of such businesses. to the extent that the final rules related to tlac require us to issue material amounts of additional qualified loss-absorbing debt or to refinance material amounts of our existing debt, such requirements, at least in the near term, could increase our borrowing costs, perhaps materially, and negatively impact the debt capital markets. see business regulation banking supervision and regulation total loss-absorbing capacity in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k for more information about the federal reserve board proposed rules on loss-absorbency requirements. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making positions in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. 28 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may in the future be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regulatory developments volcker rule in part ii, item 7 of the 2015 form 10-k for information about our plans to reduce our interests in covered funds in order to comply with the volcker rule. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. for further information about our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of the 2015 form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally across our firm, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. as of december 2015, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $1.06 billion and $2.69 billion, respectively. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of the firm at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for further information about our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of the 2015 form 10-k. 30 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency or liquidity. regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. recently, numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed, and additional regulations are under consideration, to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations and others being considered address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes and prohibitions on parent guarantees that are subject to cross-defaults. these may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including new guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions, as well as proposals relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and tlac, including limitations on the terms of eligible debt securities qualifying as tlac or as eligible long-term debt limiting events of default, excluding structured notes and restrictions on non-u.s. governing law. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain until implementation of post-financial crisis regulatory reform is complete. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours and, under the volcker rule, transactions between goldman sachs and certain covered funds. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as human error, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries many rules and regulations worldwide govern our obligations to report transactions to regulators, exchanges and investors. compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can be challenging, and the firm and other financial institutions have been subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to report timely, accurate and complete information. as reporting requirements expand, compliance with these rules and regulations has become more challenging. as our client base, and our geographical reach expands, and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increases, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering such errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or the firm. systems enhancements and updates, as well as the requisite training, including in connection with the integration of new businesses, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on human beings as our greatest resource, and, from time-to-time, they make mistakes that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our other procedures which are intended to prevent and detect such errors. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment. we strive to eliminate such human errors through training, supervision, technology and by redundant processes and controls. human errors, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for the firm. in addition, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. 32 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, including cloud service providers. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. a failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients information, against cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information in recent years, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with foreign governments or are involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within the firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be ineffective and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. in addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the federal reserve board source of strength policy, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. 34 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence or maintain internal total loss-absorbing capacity at such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co., gs bank usa and gsec subject to certain exceptions. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, we may incur additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k for further information about regulatory restrictions. the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the united states and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc. security holders. as described under business regulation insolvency of an insured depository institution or a bank holding company, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, the rights of group inc. creditors would be determined under the orderly liquidation authority, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between the orderly liquidation authority and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debt holders. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the fdic has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a large financial institution such as group inc. in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debt holders (including, in our case, holders of our debt securities) and other creditors of the top-tier holding company (in our case, group inc.), while the holding company subsidiaries may continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy, in which group inc. would be the only legal entity to enter resolution proceedings, could result in greater losses to group inc. security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that could result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy for group inc. assuming group inc. entered resolution proceedings and that support from group inc. to its subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be transferred to group inc. and ultimately borne by group inc. security holders, third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and group inc. security holders (including our shareholders, holders of our debt securities and other unsecured creditors) could face significant losses. the orderly liquidation authority also provides the fdic with authority to cause creditors and shareholders of the financial company such as group inc. in receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to such losses, and amounts owed to the u.s. government would generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims of private creditors, including senior creditors. in addition, under the orderly liquidation authority, claims of creditors (including holders of our debt securities) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity or other securities in a bridge entity to which group inc. assets are transferred. if such a securities-for-claims exchange were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for which the securities were exchanged. while the fdic has issued regulations to implement the orderly liquidation authority, not all aspects of how the fdic might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is likely. the ultimate impact of the recently proposed rules requiring u.s. g-sibs to maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt meeting specified eligibility requirements is uncertain. on october 30, 2015, the federal reserve board released for comment proposed rules (the tlac rules) that would require the eight u.s. g-sibs, including group inc., among other things, to maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt (i.e., debt having a maturity greater than one year from issuance (ltd)) satisfying certain eligibility criteria commencing january 1, 2019. as proposed, the tlac rules would disqualify from eligible ltd, among other instruments, senior debt securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or payment default, as well as debt securities defined as structured notes in the tlac rules (e.g., many of our indexed debt securities) and debt securities not governed by u.s. law. the currently outstanding senior ltd of u.s. g-sibs, including group inc., typically permits acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or payment default and, as a result, neither such outstanding senior ltd nor any subsequently issued senior ltd with similar terms, would qualify as eligible ltd under the proposed rules. the federal reserve board has requested comment on whether currently outstanding instruments should be allowed to count as eligible ltd despite containing features that would be prohibited under the proposal. the u.s. g-sibs, including group inc., may need to take steps to come into compliance with the final tlac rules depending in substantial part on the ultimate eligibility requirements for senior ltd and any grandfathering provisions. non-u.s. regulators are considering similar requirements. see business regulation banking supervision and regulation total loss-absorbing capacity in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k for more information about the federal reserve board proposed rules on loss-absorbency requirements. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the united kingdom and the eu, have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debt holders. u.s. and non-u.s. regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier holding company and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier holding company in the event of failure. 36 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of group inc. proposed resolution strategy could result in greater losses for group inc. security holders, and failure to address shortcomings in our resolution plan could subject us to increased regulatory requirements. in our resolution plan, group inc. would be resolved under the u.s. bankruptcy code. the strategy described in our resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry strategy: group inc. would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional intercompany loans. if this strategy were successful, creditors of some or all of group inc. major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while group inc. security holders could face significant losses. if this strategy were not successful, group inc. financial condition would be adversely impacted and group inc. security holders, including debt holders, may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented. in all cases, any payments to debt holders are dependent on our ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to our credit risk. in august 2014, the federal reserve board and the fdic indicated that group inc., along with other large industry participants, had certain shortcomings in the 2013 resolution plans that were required to have been addressed in the 2015 resolution plans. if it is determined that group inc. did not effectively address these shortcomings, the federal reserve board and the fdic could, after any permitted resubmission, find our resolution plan not credible and require us to hold more capital, change our business structure or dispose of businesses, which could have a negative impact on our ability to return capital to shareholders, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivatives contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which is likely to significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the eu, and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. provisions of the dodd-frank act have led to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which has significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this consolidation and convergence has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. 38 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a significant volume of transactions occur among a limited number of members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities and commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the united states. we have announced our intention to increase our consumer-oriented deposit-taking activities. to the extent we engage in such activities or similar consumer-oriented activities, we could face additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and significantly increased retention and transmission of customer and client information. new business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held or in which we interact with these counterparties. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda protocol, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. the isda protocol contemplates adoption of implementing regulations by various u.s. and non-u.s. regulators, and the isda protocol impact will depend on, among other things, how it is implemented. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. as a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our employees is paid in the form of year-end discretionary compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. recently, we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the demands of new regulatory requirements. this is also the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of the 2015 form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large global financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. 40 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2015 form 10-k for information about certain legal proceedings in which we are involved and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of the 2015 form 10-k for information regarding certain mortgage-related contingencies. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. additionally, governmental entities are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil litigation that is often commenced after regulatory settlements. recently, significant settlements by several large financial institutions with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. certain regulators, including the sec, have announced policies that make it more likely that they will seek an admission of wrongdoing as part of any settlement of a matter brought by them against a regulated entity or individual, which could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions with so-called bad actor laws and could have other negative effects. in addition, the u.s. department of justice has announced a policy of requiring companies to provide investigators with all relevant facts relating to the individuals responsible for the alleged misconduct in order to qualify for any cooperation credit in civil and criminal investigations of corporate wrongdoing, which may result in our incurring increased fines and penalties if the department of justice determines that we have not provided sufficient information about applicable individuals in connection with an investigation, as well as increased costs in responding to department of justice investigations. it is possible that other governmental authorities will adopt similar policies. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and transport, and engage in market making of commodities. the commodities involved in these activities may include crude oil, oil refined products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight and related products and indices. in our investing and lending businesses, we make investments in and finance entities that engage in the production, storage and transportation of numerous commodities, including many of the commodities referenced above. these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. if that occurs, the firm may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as the firm may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. 42 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, there has been significant conflict between russia and ukraine in recent years, and sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and eu on certain individuals and companies in russia. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. a determination by the united kingdom to exit or otherwise significantly change its relationship with the european union could affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding throughout the world, including in emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as the ebola or zika viruses, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k 43 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of the 2015 form 10-k. 112 goldman sachs 2015 form 10-k table of contentsrisk factor we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. these conditions can change suddenly and negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, regulatory and market conditions which result in transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, clear regulations and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty in u.s. federal fiscal or monetary policy, the u.s. federal debt ceiling and the continued funding of the u.s. government; the extent of and uncertainty about the timing and nature of regulatory reforms; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or default rates; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability or uncertainty, such as brexit; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially and adversely affected in the past by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. in addition, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, about the impact of brexit, and about changes in interest rates and other market conditions or actual changes in interest rates and other market conditions, including market conditions in china, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the scope, timing and final implementation of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity, which adversely affects many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on which and, if permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. although interest rates are at or near historically low levels, financial institution returns have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures adjust to new regulations. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the final interpretation and implementation of new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to the new landscape, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a significant risk that such changes will, at least in the near term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. among other things, as a result of regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including higher capital requirements, or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. such limitations or conditions may limit our business activities and negatively impact our profitability. separate and apart from the impact on the scope and profitability of our business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws and regulations, in particular those laws and regulations adopted since 2008, has involved and will, except to the extent that some of such regulations are eventually modified or otherwise repealed, continue to involve significant amounts of time, including that of our senior leaders and that of an increasing number of dedicated compliance and other reporting and operational personnel, all of which may negatively impact our profitability. if there are new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, requirements relating to recovery and resolution planning, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. 26 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act that have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the lcr, the nsfr, requirements relating to long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, covered funds by the volcker rule may adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if these requirements do not apply equally to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. as described under business regulation capital and liquidity requirements payment of dividends and stock repurchases in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, group inc. proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the federal reserve board as part of the ccar process. if the federal reserve board objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, group inc. could be prohibited from taking some or all of the proposed capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. we are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. to the extent that we have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a financial adviser, investment adviser or in other roles for individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations could have materially negative legal, regulatory and reputational consequences. for information about the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. because substantially all of these investing, lending and market-making positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of credit products, including leveraged loans, and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. an example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. in cases where we foreclose on collateral, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that the foreclosure was not permitted under the legal documents, was conducted in an improper manner or caused a client or counterparty to go out of business. 28 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions, particularly large transactions, and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. our credit businesses have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. a lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of which can increase transaction risk or decrease the profitability of such businesses. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making inventory in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may in the future be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products or a client preference for products other than those which we offer. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. to the extent that our clients choose to invest in products that we do not currently offer, we will suffer outflows and a loss of management fees. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions, and underwriting activities, with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as those that occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. in addition, the use of models in connection with risk management and numerous other critical activities presents risks that such models may be ineffective, either because of poor design or ineffective testing, improper or flawed inputs, as well as unpermitted access to such models resulting in unapproved or malicious changes to the model or its inputs. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. for further information about our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. 30 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally across our firm, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if there is not generally a liquid market for such assets, as well as in circumstances where other market participants are seeking to sell similar otherwise generally liquid assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. for example, under the volcker rule, we are currently required to sell our interests in illiquid funds by july 2017. if our request for an extension is not granted, we will be required to sell such interests by july 2017 and we will likely receive significantly less than our carrying value for those assets. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. as of december 2016, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $677 million and $2.22 billion, respectively. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of us at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for further information about our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency or liquidity. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. recently, numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed, and additional regulations are under consideration, to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations and others being considered address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes and prohibitions on parent guarantees that are subject to cross-defaults. these may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including new rules relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and tlac, guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain until implementation of post-financial crisis regulatory reform is complete. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the federal reserve board with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours and, under the volcker rule, transactions between goldman sachs and certain covered funds. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as human error, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. many rules and regulations worldwide govern our obligations to report transactions and other information to regulators, exchanges and investors. compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can be challenging, and the firm and other financial institutions have been subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to report timely, accurate and complete information. as reporting requirements expand, compliance with these rules and regulations has become more challenging. as our client base and our geographical reach expand and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increase, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering such errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. 32 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or the firm. systems enhancements and updates, as well as the requisite training, including in connection with the integration of new businesses, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on people as our greatest resource, and, from time-to-time, they make mistakes that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our other procedures which are intended to prevent and detect such errors. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software or model development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment. we strive to eliminate such human errors through training, supervision, technology and by redundant processes and controls. human errors, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for the firm. in addition, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, including cloud service providers. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. a failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients information, against cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies, consumer-based companies and other organizations reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client, customer or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. there have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. we may face an increasing number of attempted cyber attacks as we expand our mobile- and other internet-based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies and as we provide more of these services to a greater number of retail clients. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with foreign governments or are involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within the firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our protective measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage. 34 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be ineffective and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. in addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the federal reserve board source of strength policy, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence or maintain internal total loss-absorbing capacity at such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by us on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co. and gs bank usa, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution planning may cause us to be subject to additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for further information about regulatory restrictions. the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the u.s. and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc. security holders. as described under business regulation banking supervision and regulation insolvency of an insured depository institution or a bank holding company, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under ola, the rights of group inc. creditors would be determined under ola, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between ola and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under ola to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debtholders. the fdic has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under ola to resolve a large financial institution such as group inc. in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debtholders and other creditors of the top-tier holding company (in our case, group inc.), while the holding company subsidiaries may continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy under ola, in which group inc. would be the only legal entity to enter resolution proceedings (and its material broker-dealer, bank and other operating entities would not enter resolution proceedings), would result in greater losses to group inc. security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that would result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy, such as a multiple point of entry resolution strategy for group inc. and certain of its material subsidiaries. assuming group inc. entered resolution proceedings and that support from group inc. to its subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be transferred to group inc. and ultimately borne by group inc. security holders, third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and group inc. security holders (including our shareholders, debtholders and other unsecured creditors) could face significant losses. in that case, group inc. security holders would face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would incur no losses because the subsidiaries would continue to operate and would not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. in addition, holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities could face losses ahead of its other similarly situated creditors in a resolution under ola if the fdic exercised its right, described above, to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims. ola also provides the fdic with authority to cause creditors and shareholders of the financial company such as group inc. in receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to such losses, and amounts owed to the u.s. government would generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims of private creditors, including senior creditors. 36 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, under ola, claims of creditors (including debtholders) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity or other securities in a bridge entity to which group inc. assets are transferred. if such a securities-for-claims exchange were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for which the securities were exchanged. while the fdic has issued regulations to implement ola, not all aspects of how the fdic might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is likely. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and the e.u., have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debtholders. u.s. and non-u.s. regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier holding company and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier holding company in the event of failure. the application of group inc. proposed resolution strategy could result in greater losses for group inc. security holders, and failure to address shortcomings in our resolution plan could subject us to increased regulatory requirements. in our resolution plan, group inc. would be resolved under the u.s. bankruptcy code. the strategy described in our resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry strategy: group inc. would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional intercompany loans. if this strategy were successful, creditors of some or all of group inc. major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while group inc. security holders could face significant losses. in that case, group inc. security holders could face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. major subsidiaries would incur no losses because those subsidiaries would continue to operate and not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. as part of the strategy, group inc. could also seek to elevate the priority of its guarantee obligations relating to its major subsidiaries derivatives contracts so that cross-default and early termination rights would be stayed under the isda protocol, which would result in holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities incurring losses ahead of the beneficiaries of those guarantee obligations. it is also possible that holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and other debt securities could incur losses ahead of other similarly situated creditors. if group inc. proposed resolution strategy were not successful, group inc. financial condition would be adversely impacted and group inc. security holders, including debtholders, may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented. in all cases, any payments to debtholders are dependent on our ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to our credit risk. in april 2016, the federal reserve board and the fdic provided feedback on the 2015 resolution plans of eight systemically important domestic banking institutions and provided guidance related to the 2017 resolution plan submissions. while our plan was not jointly found to be deficient (i.e., non-credible or to not facilitate an orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code), the fdic identified certain deficiencies and both the fdic and federal reserve board also identified certain shortcomings. in response to the feedback received, in september 2016, we submitted a status report on our actions to address these shortcomings and a separate public section that explains these actions at a high level, which is available on our website as described under available information in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. our 2017 resolution plan, which is due by july 1, 2017, is also required to address the shortcomings and take into account the additional guidance. if it is determined that group inc. did not effectively address the shortcomings and additional guidance, the federal reserve board and the fdic could, after any permitted resubmission, find our resolution plan not credible and require us to hold more capital, change our business structure or dispose of businesses, which could have a negative impact on our ability to return capital to shareholders, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as a result of our recovery and resolution planning processes, including incorporating feedback from our regulators, we may incur increased operational, funding or other costs and face limitations on our ability to structure our internal organization or engage in internal or external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivatives contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act require issuers of asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset, which is likely to significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the e.u., and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. provisions of the dodd-frank act have led to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which has significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. 38 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this consolidation and convergence has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a significant volume of transactions occur among a limited number of members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities and commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the u.s. we have recently increased and intend to further increase our consumer-oriented deposit-taking and lending activities. to the extent we engage in such activities or similar consumer-oriented activities, we could face additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and significantly increased retention and transmission of customer and client information. new business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated clients, counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held or in which we interact with these counterparties. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda protocol, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. various u.s. and non-u.s. regulators have proposed or adopted implementing regulations contemplated by the isda protocol, and those implementing regulations may result in additional limitations on our ability to exercise remedies against counterparties. the isda protocol impact will depend on, among other things, how it is implemented and the development of market practice and structures under the implementing regulations. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled people; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. as a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our employees is in the form of year-end discretionary compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified employees has often been intense. recently, we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the demands of new regulatory requirements. this is also the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. 40 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the federal reserve board. as a large global financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the federal reserve board, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing (including, in some cases, press coverage and public statements that do not directly involve us) often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information about certain legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in which we are involved and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information regarding certain mortgage-related contingencies. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. additionally, governmental entities have been and are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil litigation that is often commenced after regulatory settlements. recently, significant settlements by several large financial institutions, including, in some cases, us, with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. certain enforcement authorities have recently required admissions of wrongdoing, and, in some cases, criminal pleas, as part of the resolutions of matters brought by them against financial institutions. any such resolution of a matter involving the firm could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions and could have other negative effects. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, the u.s. department of justice has announced a policy of requiring companies to provide investigators with all relevant facts relating to the individuals responsible for the alleged misconduct in order to qualify for any cooperation credit in civil and criminal investigations of corporate wrongdoing, which may result in our incurring increased fines and penalties if the department of justice determines that we have not provided sufficient information about applicable individuals in connection with an investigation, as well as increased costs in responding to department of justice investigations. it is possible that other governmental authorities will adopt similar policies. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and transport, and engage in market making of commodities. the commodities involved in these activities may include crude oil, oil refined products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight and related products and indices. in our investing and lending businesses, we make investments in and finance entities that engage in the production, storage and transportation of numerous commodities, including many of the commodities referenced above. these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. 42 goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. for example, the federal reserve board recently proposed regulations that could impose significant additional capital requirements on certain commodity-related activities. if that occurs, we may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as we may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, there has been significant conflict between russia and ukraine in recent years, and sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and the e.u. on certain individuals and companies in russia. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. further, in some jurisdictions a failure to comply with laws and regulations may subject the firm and its personnel not only to civil actions but also criminal actions. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. in june 2016, a referendum was passed for the u.k. to exit the e.u. (brexit). the exit of the u.k. from the e.u. will likely change the arrangements by which u.k. firms are able to provide services into the e.u., which may materially adversely affect the manner in which we operate certain of our businesses in europe and could require us to restructure certain of our operations. the outcome of the negotiations between the u.k. and the e.u. in connection with brexit is highly uncertain. such uncertainty has resulted in, and may continue to result in, market volatility and may negatively impact the confidence of investors and clients. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 43 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding throughout the world, including in emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal legal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as the ebola or zika viruses, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and structure of risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. goldman sachs 2016 form 10-k 107 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. these conditions can change suddenly and negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, regulatory and market conditions which result in transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, clear regulations and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty concerning fiscal or monetary policy, government debt ceilings or funding; the extent of and uncertainty about tax and other regulatory changes; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or default rates; outbreaks of domestic or international tensions or hostilities, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, cybersecurity threats or attacks and other forms of disruption to or curtailment of global communication, energy transmission or transportation networks or other geopolitical instability or uncertainty, such as brexit; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. the financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially and adversely affected in the past by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. in addition, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, about the impact of brexit, and about changes in interest rates and other market conditions or actual changes in interest rates and other market conditions, including market conditions in china, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the scope, timing and impact of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity, which adversely affects many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on which and, if permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 23 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries although interest rates are still near historically low levels, financial institution returns in many countries have also been negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures continue to adjust to new regulations. the degree to which these and other changes resulting from the financial crisis will have a long-term impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the implementation of recently adopted and new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions adapt to these regulations, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a significant risk that such changes will, at least in the near term, continue to negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity at our firm and at other financial institutions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by law enforcement, regulatory and taxing authorities, as well as private litigation, in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. among other things, as a result of law enforcement authorities, regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we or our employees could be fined or criminally sanctioned, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including higher capital requirements, or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. such limitations or conditions may limit our business activities and negatively impact our profitability. in addition to the impact on the scope and profitability of our business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws and regulations, in particular those adopted since 2008, has involved and will, except to the extent that some of such regulations are eventually modified or otherwise repealed, continue to involve significant amounts of time, including that of our senior leaders and that of a large number of dedicated compliance and other reporting and operational personnel, all of which may negatively impact our profitability. if there are new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, requirements relating to recovery and resolution planning, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and have adversely affected and may in the future affect our profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act that have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the lcr, the nsfr, requirements relating to long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, covered funds by the volcker rule may continue to adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if these requirements do not apply equally to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. 24 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, group inc. proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the frb as part of the ccar process. if the frb objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, group inc. could be prohibited from taking some or all of the proposed capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. we are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. as new privacy-related laws and regulations, such as the gdpr, are implemented, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. we have recently entered new retail-oriented deposit-taking and lending businesses, and we currently expect to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings. entering into such new businesses, as with any new business, subjects us to numerous additional regulations in the jurisdictions in which these businesses operate. not only are these regulations extensive, but they involve types of regulations and supervision, as well as regulatory compliance risks, that we have not previously encountered. the level of regulatory scrutiny and the scope of regulations affecting financial interactions with retail clients is often much greater than that associated with doing business with institutions and high-net-worth clients. complying with such new regulations is time-consuming, costly and presents new and increased risks. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. to the extent that we have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a financial adviser, investment adviser or in other roles for individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations could have materially negative legal, regulatory and reputational consequences. for information about the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. in addition, we invest in similar asset classes. substantially all of our investing and market-making positions and a portion of our loans are marked-to-market on a daily basis and declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of credit products, including leveraged loans, and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. an example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets, which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. in cases where we foreclose on collateral, sudden declines in the value or liquidity of such collateral may, despite credit monitoring, over-collateralization, the ability to call for additional collateral or the ability to force repayment of the underlying obligation, result in significant losses to us, especially where there is a single type of collateral supporting the obligation. in addition, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that the foreclosure was not permitted under the legal documents, was conducted in an improper manner or caused a client or counterparty to go out of business. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments or by obtaining loans or lines of credit from commercial or other banking entities. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers, acquisitions and other types of strategic transactions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions, particularly large transactions, and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. 26 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our credit businesses have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. a lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of which can increase transaction risk or decrease the profitability of such businesses. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility have reduced and may continue to reduce these opportunities and the level of client activity associated with them and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making inventory in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may in the future be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. to the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products or a client preference for products other than those which we offer or for products that generate lower fees. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. to the extent that our clients choose to invest in products that we do not currently offer, we will suffer outflows and a loss of management fees. further, if, due to changes in investor sentiment or the relative performance of certain asset classes or otherwise, clients invest in products that generate lower fees, our investment management business could be adversely affected. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions, and underwriting activities, with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as those that occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. in addition, the use of models in connection with risk management and numerous other critical activities presents risks that such models may be ineffective, either because of poor design or ineffective testing, improper or flawed inputs, as well as unpermitted access to such models resulting in unapproved or malicious changes to the model or its inputs. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. as we have recently expanded and intend to continue to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings of credit products to retail clients, we are presented with different credit risks and must expand and adapt our credit risk monitoring and mitigation activities to account for these new business activities. a failure to adequately assess and control such risk exposures could result in losses to us. for further information about our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally across our firm, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. 28 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if there is not generally a liquid market for such assets, as well as in circumstances where other market participants are seeking to sell similar otherwise generally liquid assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. as of december 2017, in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $358 million and $1.86 billion, respectively. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of us at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for further information about our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency or liquidity. regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. recently, numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes and prohibitions on parent guarantees that are subject to certain cross-defaults. new and prospective liquidity-related regulations may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including new rules relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and tlac, guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain until implementation of post-financial crisis regulatory reform is complete. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our other businesses and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, our status as a bhc subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the frb with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours and, under the volcker rule, transactions between goldman sachs and certain covered funds. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as human error, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. many rules and regulations worldwide govern our obligations to report transactions and other information to regulators, exchanges and investors. compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can be challenging, and we have been, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to report timely, accurate and complete information. as reporting requirements expand, compliance with these rules and regulations has become more challenging. as our client base and our geographical reach expand and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increase, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering such errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or us. enhancements and updates to systems, as well as the requisite training, including in connection with the integration of new businesses, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. the use of computing devices and phones is critical to the work done by our employees and the operation of our systems and businesses and those of our clients and our third-party service providers and vendors. it has been reported that there are some fundamental security flaws in computer chips found in many types of these computing devices and phones. addressing this issue could be costly and affect the performance of these businesses and systems, and operational risks may be incurred in applying fixes and there may still be residual security risks. additionally, although the prevalence and scope of applications of distributed ledger technology and similar technologies is growing, the technology is also nascent and may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or have other inherent weaknesses. we may be, or may become, exposed to risks related to distributed ledger technology through our facilitation of clients activities involving financial products linked to distributed ledger technology, such as blockchain or cryptocurrencies, our investments in companies that seek to develop platforms based on distributed ledger technology, and the use of distributed ledger technology by third-party vendors, clients, counterparties, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. 30 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on people as our greatest resource, and, from time-to-time, they make mistakes that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our other procedures which are intended to prevent and detect such errors. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software or model development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment. we strive to eliminate such human errors through training, supervision, technology and by redundant processes and controls. human errors, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for us. in addition, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us, our employees or third parties with which we conduct business, including cloud service providers. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. in addition, although we seek to diversify our third-party vendors to increase our resiliency, we are also exposed to the risk that a disruption or other information technology event at a common service provider to our vendors could impede their ability to provide products or services to us. we may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational risks relating to our vendors use of common service providers. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries a failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients information, against cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving financial services companies, consumer-based companies, governmental agencies and other organizations reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client, customer or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. there have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information or for restoring access to information or systems. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. we may face an increasing number of attempted cyber attacks as we expand our mobile- and other internet-based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies and as we provide more of these services to a greater number of individual retail customers. the increasing migration of firm communication and other platforms from firm-provided devices to employee-owned devices presents additional risks of cyber attacks. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors (and their respective service providers), central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. these effects could include the loss of access to information or services from the third party subject to the cyber attack or other information security event, which could, in turn, interrupt certain of our businesses. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with foreign governments or are involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within the firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our protective measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in legal or regulatory action, significant losses or reputational damage. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be ineffective and we may be subject to legal or regulatory action, and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. in addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available. 32 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the frb source of strength requirement, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence or require internal total loss-absorbing capacity at such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by us on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co. and gs bank usa, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution planning may cause us to be subject to additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for further information about regulatory restrictions. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the u.s. and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc. security holders. as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation insolvency of an insured depository institution or a bank holding company, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under ola, the rights of group inc. creditors would be determined under ola, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between ola and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under ola to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debtholders. the fdic has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under ola to resolve a large financial institution such as group inc. in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debtholders and other creditors of the top-tier bhc (in our case, group inc.), while the bhc subsidiaries may continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy under ola, in which group inc. would be the only entity to enter resolution proceedings (and its material broker-dealer, bank and other operating entities would not enter resolution proceedings), would result in greater losses to group inc. security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that would result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy, such as a multiple point of entry resolution strategy for group inc. and certain of its material subsidiaries. assuming group inc. entered resolution proceedings and that support from group inc. to its subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be transferred to group inc. and ultimately borne by group inc. security holders, third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and group inc. security holders (including our shareholders, debtholders and other unsecured creditors) could face significant and possibly complete losses. in that case, group inc. security holders would face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would incur no losses because the subsidiaries would continue to operate and would not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. in addition, holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities could face losses ahead of its other similarly situated creditors in a resolution under ola if the fdic exercised its right, described above, to disregard the priority of creditor claims. ola also provides the fdic with authority to cause creditors and shareholders of the financial company such as group inc. in receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to such losses, and amounts owed to the u.s. government would generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims of private creditors, including senior creditors. in addition, under ola, claims of creditors (including debtholders) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity or other securities in a bridge entity to which group inc. assets are transferred. if such a securities-for-claims exchange were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for which the securities were exchanged. while the fdic has issued regulations to implement ola, not all aspects of how the fdic might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is likely. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and the e.u., have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debtholders. u.s. regulators are considering and non-u.s. authorities have proposed requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier bhc and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier bhc in the event of failure. 34 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of group inc. proposed resolution strategy could result in greater losses for group inc. security holders, and failure to address shortcomings in our resolution plan could subject us to increased regulatory requirements. in our resolution plan, group inc. would be resolved under the u.s. bankruptcy code. the strategy described in our resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry strategy: group inc. and goldman sachs funding llc (funding ihc), a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of group inc., would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional intercompany loans. if this strategy were successful, creditors of some or all of group inc. major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while group inc. security holders could face significant and possibly complete losses. to facilitate the execution of our resolution plan, we formed funding ihc, a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of group inc. in exchange for an unsecured subordinated funding note and equity interest, group inc. has transferred certain intercompany receivables and substantially all of its global core liquid assets (gcla) to funding ihc, and has agreed to transfer additional gcla above prescribed thresholds. we also put in place a capital and liquidity support agreement (clsa) among group inc., funding ihc and our major subsidiaries. under the clsa, funding ihc has provided group inc. with a committed line of credit that allows group inc. to draw sufficient funds to meet its cash needs during the ordinary course of business. in addition, if our financial resources deteriorate so severely that resolution may be imminent, (i) the committed line of credit will automatically terminate and the unsecured subordinated funding note will automatically be forgiven, (ii) all intercompany receivables owed by the major subsidiaries to group inc. will be transferred to funding ihc or their maturities will be extended to five years, (iii) group inc. will be obligated to transfer substantially all of its remaining intercompany receivables and gcla (other than an amount to fund anticipated bankruptcy expenses) to funding ihc, and (iv) funding ihc will be obligated to provide capital and liquidity support to the major subsidiaries. group inc. and funding ihc obligations under the clsa are secured pursuant to a related security agreement. such actions would materially and adversely affect group inc. liquidity. as a result, during a period of severe stress, group inc. might commence bankruptcy proceedings at an earlier time than it otherwise would if the clsa and related security agreement had not been implemented. if group inc. proposed resolution strategy were successful, group inc. security holders could face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. major subsidiaries would incur no losses because those subsidiaries would continue to operate and not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. as part of the strategy, group inc. could also seek to elevate the priority of its guarantee obligations relating to its major subsidiaries derivative contracts or transfer them to another entity so that cross-default and early termination rights would be stayed under the isda protocol, which would result in holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities incurring losses ahead of the beneficiaries of those guarantee obligations. it is also possible that holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and other debt securities could incur losses ahead of other similarly situated creditors. if group inc. proposed resolution strategy were not successful, group inc. financial condition would be adversely impacted and group inc. security holders, including debtholders, may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented. in all cases, any payments to debtholders are dependent on our ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to our credit risk. as a result of our recovery and resolution planning processes, including incorporating feedback from our regulators, we may incur increased operational, funding or other costs and face limitations on our ability to structure our internal organization or engage in internal or external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivative contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act, and similar rules adopted in other jurisdictions, require issuers of certain asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates certain asset-backed securities transactions to retain economic exposure to the asset, which has affected the cost of and structures used in connection with these securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the e.u., and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, has led to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which has significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this consolidation and convergence has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. 36 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a significant volume of transactions occur among a limited number of members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities and commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the u.s. we have recently increased and intend to further increase our retail-oriented deposit-taking and lending activities. to the extent we engage in such activities or similar retail-oriented activities, we could face additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and significantly increased retention and transmission of customer and client information. as a result of a recent information security event involving a credit reporting agency, identity fraud may increase and industry practices may change in a manner that makes it more difficult for financial institutions, such as us, to evaluate the creditworthiness of retail customers. new business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated clients, counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held or in which we interact with these counterparties. our results may be adversely affected by the composition of our client base. our client base is not the same as that of our major competitors. our businesses may have a higher or lower percentage of clients in certain industries or markets than some or all of our competitors. therefore, unfavorable industry developments or market conditions affecting certain industries or markets may result in our businesses underperforming relative to similar businesses of a competitor if our businesses have a higher concentration of clients in such industries or markets. for example, our market-making businesses have a higher percentage of clients with actively managed assets than our competitors and such clients have been disproportionately affected by the low levels of volatility. correspondingly, favorable or simply less adverse developments or market conditions involving industries or markets in a business where we have a lower concentration of clients in such industry or market may also result in our underperforming relative to a similar business of a competitor that has a higher concentration of clients in such industry or market. for example, we have a smaller corporate client base in our market-making businesses than many of our peers and therefore such competitors may benefit more from increased activity by corporate clients. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to us. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda protocol and being subject to the frb and fdic rules on qfcs and similar rules in other jurisdictions, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. various non-u.s. regulators have also proposed regulations contemplated by the isda protocol, and those implementing regulations may result in additional limitations on our ability to exercise remedies against counterparties. the impact of the isda protocol and these rules and regulations will depend on the development of market practices and structures. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to such platform. certain of our businesses and our funding may be adversely affected by changes in the reference rates, currencies, indexes, baskets or etfs to which products we offer or funding that we raise are linked. all of our floating rate funding pays interest by reference to a rate, such as libor or federal funds. in addition, many of the products that we own or that we offer, such as structured notes, warrants, swaps or security-based swaps, pay interest or determine the principal amount to be paid at maturity or in the event of default by reference to similar rates or by reference to an index, currency, basket, etf or other financial metric (the underlier). in the event that the composition of the underlier is significantly changed, by reference to rules governing such underlier or otherwise, or the underlier ceases to exist (for example, in the event that libor is discontinued, a country withdraws from the euro or links its currency to or delinks its currency from another currency or benchmark, or an index or etf sponsor materially alters the composition of an index or etf), there may be uncertainty as to the calculation of the amounts to be paid to the lender, investor or counterparty, depending on the terms of the governing instrument. such changes in an underlier or underliers could result in our hedges being ineffective or otherwise result in losses on a product or having to pay more or receive less on securities that we own or have issued. in addition, such uncertainty could result in lengthy and costly litigation. 38 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled people; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. as a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our employees is in the form of year-end discretionary compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, including the technology industry, for qualified employees has often been intense. recently, we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the demands of new regulatory requirements, expanding retail-oriented businesses and our technology initiatives. this is also the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the frb. as a large global financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the frb, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing (including, in some cases, press coverage and public statements that do not directly involve us) often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see notes 18 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information about certain legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our staff. additionally, governmental entities have been and are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil litigation that is often commenced after regulatory settlements. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries significant settlements by several large financial institutions, including, in some cases, us, with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. recently, claims of collusion or anti-competitive conduct have become more common. civil cases have been brought against financial institutions (including us) alleging bid rigging, group boycotts or other anti-competitive practices. antitrust laws generally provide for joint and several liability and treble damages. these claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in significant settlements. we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. violation of such laws and regulations could result in significant monetary penalties, severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation. certain law enforcement authorities have recently required admissions of wrongdoing, and, in some cases, criminal pleas, as part of the resolutions of matters brought by them against financial institutions. any such resolution of a matter involving us could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions and could have other negative effects. in addition, the u.s. department of justice has announced a policy of requiring companies to provide investigators with all relevant facts relating to the individuals responsible for the alleged misconduct in order to qualify for any cooperation credit in civil and criminal investigations of corporate wrongdoing, which may result in our incurring increased fines and penalties if the department of justice determines that we have not provided sufficient information about applicable individuals in connection with an investigation, as well as increased costs in responding to department of justice investigations. it is possible that other governmental authorities will adopt similar policies. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and transport, and engage in market making of commodities. the commodities involved in these activities may include crude oil, refined oil products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight and related products and indices. in our investing and lending businesses, we make investments in and finance entities that engage in the production, storage and transportation of numerous commodities, including many of the commodities referenced above. 40 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and profitability of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. for example, the frb has proposed regulations that could impose significant additional capital requirements on certain commodity-related activities. if that occurs, we may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as we may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and the e.u. on certain individuals and companies in russia. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market, but also on our reputation generally. further, in some jurisdictions a failure to comply with laws and regulations may subject us and our personnel not only to civil actions, but also criminal actions. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. in march 2017, the u.k. notified the european council of its decision to leave the e.u. (brexit). the exit of the u.k. from the e.u. will likely change the arrangements by which u.k. firms are able to provide services into the e.u., which may materially adversely affect the manner in which we operate certain of our businesses in europe and could require us to restructure certain of our operations. the outcome of the negotiations between the u.k. and the e.u. in connection with brexit is highly uncertain. such uncertainty may result in market volatility and may negatively impact the confidence of investors and clients. additionally, depending on the outcome, brexit could have a disproportionate effect on our operations in the e.u. compared to some of our competitors who have more extensive pre-existing operations in the e.u. outside of the u.k. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding throughout the world, including in emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the usa patriot act and u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as the ebola or zika viruses, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 101 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels. these conditions can change suddenly and negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, regulatory and market conditions which result in transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, clear regulations and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty concerning fiscal or monetary policy, government shutdowns, debt ceilings or funding; the extent of and uncertainty about tax and other regulatory changes; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or default rates; the imposition of tariffs or other limitations on international trade and travel; outbreaks of domestic or international tensions or hostilities, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, cybersecurity threats or attacks and other forms of disruption to or curtailment of global communication, energy transmission or transportation networks or other geopolitical instability or uncertainty, such as brexit; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. 22 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially and adversely affected in the past by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. in addition, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, the impact of brexit, the imposition of tariffs by the u.s. and by other countries in response thereto, and changes in interest rates and other market conditions or actual changes in interest rates and other market conditions, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the scope, timing and impact of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, continues to negatively impact client activity, which adversely affects many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. financial institution returns in many countries may be negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the lack of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises relative to financial institutions in countries in which governmental support is maintained. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures continue to adjust to new regulations. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on which and, if permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. the degree to which these and other changes since the financial crisis continue to have an impact on the profitability of financial institutions will depend on the effect of regulations adopted after 2008 and new regulations, the manner in which markets, market participants and financial institutions have continued to adapt to these regulations, and the prevailing economic and financial market conditions. however, there is a significant risk that such changes will negatively impact the absolute level of revenues, profitability and return on equity for us and other financial institutions. our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by law enforcement, regulatory and taxing authorities, as well as private litigation, in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. in many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. among other things, as a result of law enforcement authorities, regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we or our employees could be fined or criminally sanctioned, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including higher capital requirements, or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. such limitations or conditions may limit our business activities and negatively impact our profitability. in addition to the impact on the scope and profitability of our business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws and regulations, in particular those adopted since 2008, has involved and will, except to the extent that some of such regulations are modified or otherwise repealed, continue to involve significant amounts of time, including that of our senior leaders and that of a large number of dedicated compliance and other reporting and operational personnel, all of which may negatively impact our profitability. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 23 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries if there are new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, requirements relating to recovery and resolution planning, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (either based on size, method of funding, activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including reducing dividends or share repurchases, liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and have adversely affected and may in the future affect our profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act that have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, the lcr, the nsfr, requirements relating to long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, covered funds by the volcker rule may continue to adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if these requirements do not apply equally to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, group inc. proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the frb as part of the ccar process. if the frb objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, group inc. could be prohibited from taking some or all of the proposed capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. additionally, as a consequence of our designation as a g-sib, we are subject to the g-sib buffer. our g-sib buffer is updated annually based on financial data from the prior year. expansion of our businesses or growth in our balance sheet may result in an increase in our g-sib buffer and a corresponding increase in our capital requirements. we are also subject to laws and regulations, such as the gdpr, relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. as new privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. we have entered into new consumer-oriented deposit-taking and lending businesses, and we currently expect to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings. entering into such new businesses, as with any new business, subjects us to numerous additional regulations in the jurisdictions in which these businesses operate. not only are these regulations extensive, but they involve types of regulations and supervision, as well as regulatory compliance risks, that we have not previously encountered. the level of regulatory scrutiny and the scope of regulations affecting financial interactions with consumers is often much greater than that associated with doing business with institutions and high-net-worth individuals. complying with such new regulations is time-consuming, costly and presents new and increased risks. 24 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. to the extent that we have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a financial adviser, investment adviser or in other roles for individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations could have materially negative legal, regulatory and reputational consequences. for information about the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. in addition, we invest in similar asset classes. substantially all of our investing and market-making positions and a portion of our loans are marked-to-market on a daily basis and declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of credit products, including leveraged loans, and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. an example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets, which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in cases where we foreclose on collateral, sudden declines in the value or liquidity of such collateral may, despite credit monitoring, over-collateralization, the ability to call for additional collateral or the ability to force repayment of the underlying obligation, result in significant losses to us, especially where there is a single type of collateral supporting the obligation. in addition, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that the foreclosure was not permitted under the legal documents, was conducted in an improper manner or caused a client or counterparty to go out of business. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments or by obtaining loans or lines of credit from commercial or other banking entities. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers, acquisitions and other types of strategic transactions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions, particularly large transactions, and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. our credit businesses have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. a lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of which can increase transaction risk or decrease the profitability of such businesses. our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility have reduced and may in the future reduce these opportunities and the level of client activity associated with them and adversely affect the results of these activities. on the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our market-making inventory in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. our investment banking, client execution and investment management businesses have been adversely affected and may in the future be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. 26 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our investment management business. even if clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our investment management business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products or a client preference for products other than those which we offer or for products that generate lower fees. poor investment returns in our investment management business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. to the extent that our clients choose to invest in products that we do not currently offer, we will suffer outflows and a loss of management fees. further, if, due to changes in investor sentiment or the relative performance of certain asset classes or otherwise, clients invest in products that generate lower fees, our investment management business could be adversely affected. we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions, and underwriting activities, with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as those that occurred during 2008 and early 2009, and to some extent since 2011, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. in addition, the use of models in connection with risk management and numerous other critical activities presents risks that such models may be ineffective, either because of poor design or ineffective testing, improper or flawed inputs, as well as unpermitted access to such models resulting in unapproved or malicious changes to the model or its inputs. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries as we have expanded and intend to continue to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings of credit products to consumers, we are presented with different credit risks and must expand and adapt our credit risk monitoring and mitigation activities to account for these new business activities. a failure to adequately assess and control such risk exposures could result in losses to us. for further information about our risk management policies and procedures, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. it is of critical importance to us, as most of the failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if there is not generally a liquid market for such assets, as well as in circumstances where other market participants are seeking to sell similar otherwise generally liquid assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. as of december 2018, our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $262 million in the event of a one-notch downgrade of our credit ratings and $959 million in the event of a two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency relative ratings of us at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for further information about our credit ratings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of u.s. treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. in addition, our credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency or liquidity. 28 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. recently, numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes and prohibitions on parent guarantees that are subject to certain cross-defaults. new and prospective liquidity-related regulations may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including rules relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and tlac, guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain, while regulatory reforms are being adopted and market practices develop in response to such reforms. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our other businesses and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bhc subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the frb with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours and, under the volcker rule, transactions between goldman sachs and certain covered funds. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as human error or malfeasance, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. many rules and regulations worldwide govern our obligations to execute transactions and report such transactions and other information to regulators, exchanges and investors. compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can be challenging, and we have been, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to follow these rules or to report timely, accurate and complete information in accordance with such rules. as such requirements expand, compliance with these rules and regulations has become more challenging. as our client base, including through our consumer businesses, and our geographical reach expand and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increase, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering such errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or us. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries enhancements and updates to systems, as well as the requisite training, including in connection with the integration of new businesses, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. the use of computing devices and phones is critical to the work done by our employees and the operation of our systems and businesses and those of our clients and our third-party service providers and vendors. fundamental security flaws in computer chips found in many types of these computing devices and phones have been reported in the past and may be discovered in the future. addressing this and similar issues could be costly and affect the performance of these businesses and systems, and operational risks may be incurred in applying fixes and there may still be residual security risks. additionally, although the prevalence and scope of applications of distributed ledger technology and similar technologies is growing, the technology is also nascent and may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or have other inherent weaknesses. we may be, or may become, exposed to risks related to distributed ledger technology through our facilitation of clients activities involving financial products linked to distributed ledger technology, such as blockchain or cryptocurrencies, our investments in companies that seek to develop platforms based on distributed ledger technology, and the use of distributed ledger technology by third-party vendors, clients, counterparties, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on people as our greatest resource, and, from time-to-time, they make mistakes or engage in violations of applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our controls and other procedures, which are intended to prevent and detect such errors or violations. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software or model development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment, as well as intentional efforts to ignore or circumvent applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures. human errors and malfeasance, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for us. in addition, we face the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay with respect to our clients systems. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure or significant operational delay, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, delay, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other services facilities used by us, our employees or third parties with which we conduct business, including cloud service providers. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. in addition, although we seek to diversify our third-party vendors to increase our resiliency, we are also exposed to the risk that a disruption or other information technology event at a common service provider to our vendors could impede their ability to provide products or services to us. we may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational risks relating to our vendors use of common service providers. 30 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. a failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients information, against cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving financial services companies, consumer-based companies, governmental agencies and other organizations reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client, customer or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. there have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information or for restoring access to information or systems. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. we may face an increasing number of attempted cyber attacks as we expand our mobile- and other internet-based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies and as we provide more of these services to a greater number of individual consumers. the increasing migration of firm communication and other platforms from firm-provided devices to employee-owned devices presents additional risks of cyber attacks. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors (and their respective service providers), central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. these effects could include the loss of access to information or services from the third party subject to the cyber attack or other information security event, which could, in turn, interrupt certain of our businesses. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with or sponsored by foreign governments or are involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within the firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks on our vendors and other events that could have a security impact. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our protective measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in legal or regulatory action, significant losses or reputational damage. in addition, such an event could persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and, following detection, it could take considerable time for us to obtain full and reliable information about the extent, amount and type of information compromised. during the course of an investigation, we may not know the full impact of the event and how to remediate it, and actions, decisions and mistakes that are taken or made may further increase the negative effects of the event on our business, results of operations and reputation. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. we expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be ineffective and we may be subject to legal or regulatory action, and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. in addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available. we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the frb source of strength requirement, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc. right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence or require internal total loss-absorbing capacity at such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by us on a consolidated basis. 32 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co. and gs bank usa, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for group inc. and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution planning may cause us to be subject to additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for further information about regulatory restrictions. the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the u.s. and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc. security holders. as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation insolvency of an insured depository institution or a bank holding company, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under ola, the rights of group inc. creditors would be determined under ola, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between ola and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under ola to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debtholders. the fdic has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under ola to resolve a large financial institution such as group inc. in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debtholders and other creditors of the top-tier bhc (in our case, group inc.), while the bhc subsidiaries may continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy under ola, in which group inc. would be the only entity to enter resolution proceedings (and its material broker-dealer, bank and other operating entities would not enter resolution proceedings), would result in greater losses to group inc. security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that would result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy, such as a multiple point of entry resolution strategy for group inc. and certain of its material subsidiaries. assuming group inc. entered resolution proceedings and that support from group inc. to its subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be transferred to group inc. and ultimately borne by group inc. security holders, third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and group inc. security holders (including our shareholders, debtholders and other unsecured creditors) could face significant and possibly complete losses. in that case, group inc. security holders would face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. subsidiaries would incur no losses because the subsidiaries would continue to operate and would not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. in addition, holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities could face losses ahead of its other similarly situated creditors in a resolution under ola if the fdic exercised its right, described above, to disregard the priority of creditor claims. ola also provides the fdic with authority to cause creditors and shareholders of the financial company (such as group inc.) in receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to such losses, and amounts owed to the u.s. government would generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims of private creditors, including senior creditors. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, under ola, claims of creditors (including debtholders) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity or other securities in a bridge entity to which group inc. assets are transferred. if such a securities-for-claims exchange were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for which the securities were exchanged. while the fdic has issued regulations to implement ola, not all aspects of how the fdic might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is possible. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and the e.u., have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debtholders. if the intercompany funding we provide to our subsidiaries is bailed in, group inc. claims on its subsidiaries would be subordinated to the claims of the subsidiaries third-party creditors or written down. u.s. regulators are considering and non-u.s. authorities have adopted requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier bhc and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier bhc in the event of failure. the application of group inc. proposed resolution strategy could result in greater losses for group inc. security holders. in our resolution plan, group inc. would be resolved under the u.s. bankruptcy code. the strategy described in our resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry strategy: group inc. and goldman sachs funding llc (funding ihc), a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of group inc., would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional intercompany loans. if this strategy were successful, creditors of some or all of group inc. major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while group inc. security holders could face significant and possibly complete losses. to facilitate the execution of our resolution plan, we formed funding ihc. in exchange for an unsecured subordinated funding note and equity interest, group inc. transferred certain intercompany receivables and substantially all of its global core liquid assets (gcla) to funding ihc, and agreed to transfer additional gcla above prescribed thresholds. we also put in place a capital and liquidity support agreement (clsa) among group inc., funding ihc and our major subsidiaries. under the clsa, funding ihc has provided group inc. with a committed line of credit that allows group inc. to draw sufficient funds to meet its cash needs during the ordinary course of business. in addition, if our financial resources deteriorate so severely that resolution may be imminent, (i) the committed line of credit will automatically terminate and the unsecured subordinated funding note will automatically be forgiven, (ii) all intercompany receivables owed by the major subsidiaries to group inc. will be transferred to funding ihc or their maturities will be extended to five years, (iii) group inc. will be obligated to transfer substantially all of its remaining intercompany receivables and gcla (other than an amount to fund anticipated bankruptcy expenses) to funding ihc, and (iv) funding ihc will be obligated to provide capital and liquidity support to the major subsidiaries. group inc. and funding ihc obligations under the clsa are secured pursuant to a related security agreement. such actions would materially and adversely affect group inc. liquidity. as a result, during a period of severe stress, group inc. might commence bankruptcy proceedings at an earlier time than it otherwise would if the clsa and related security agreement had not been implemented. if group inc. proposed resolution strategy were successful, group inc. security holders could face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc. major subsidiaries would incur no losses because those subsidiaries would continue to operate and not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. as part of the strategy, group inc. could also seek to elevate the priority of its guarantee obligations relating to its major subsidiaries derivative contracts or transfer them to another entity so that cross-default and early termination rights would be stayed under the isda universal protocol or u.s. isda protocol (isda protocols), as applicable, which would result in holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc. other debt securities incurring losses ahead of the beneficiaries of those guarantee obligations. it is also possible that holders of group inc. eligible long-term debt and other debt securities could incur losses ahead of other similarly situated creditors. 34 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries if group inc. proposed resolution strategy were not successful, group inc. financial condition would be adversely impacted and group inc. security holders, including debtholders, may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented. in all cases, any payments to debtholders are dependent on our ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to our credit risk. as a result of our recovery and resolution planning processes, including incorporating feedback from our regulators, we may incur increased operational, funding or other costs and face limitations on our ability to structure our internal organization or engage in internal or external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by brexit. in march 2017, the u.k. notified the european council of its decision to leave the e.u. (brexit). as discussed in business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k there is considerable uncertainty as to the regulatory framework that will govern transactions and business undertaken by our u.k. subsidiaries in the e.u., both in the near term and the long term. as a result, we face numerous risks that could adversely affect how we conduct our businesses or our profitability and liquidity. our principal e.u. operating subsidiaries, gsi, gsib and gsami, are incorporated and headquartered in the u.k. they all currently benefit from non-discriminatory access to e.u. clients and infrastructure based on e.u. treaties and e.u. legislation, including arrangements for cross-border passporting and the establishment of e.u. branches. because the withdrawal agreement has not been ratified by the u.k. and e.u. parliaments, it is uncertain whether gsi, gsib and gsami will continue to benefit from the existing access arrangements for financial services following march 29, 2019, the date on which the u.k. is scheduled to leave the e.u. further, even if the withdrawal agreement is ratified, there is uncertainty regarding the terms of the long-term trading relationship between the e.u. and the u.k., including the terms of access to each other financial markets. in a hard brexit scenario or as otherwise necessary, our german bank subsidiary, gsbe, will act as our main operating subsidiary in the e.u. and will assume certain functions that can no longer be efficiently and effectively performed by our u.k. operating subsidiaries, including gsi, gsib and gsami. implementing this strategy could materially adversely affect the manner in which we operate certain businesses in europe, require us to restructure certain of our operations and expose us to higher operational, regulatory and compliance costs, higher taxes, higher subsidiary-level capital and liquidity requirements, additional restrictions on intercompany transactions, and new restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to share personal data, including client data, all of which could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. gsbe has not been one of our main operating subsidiaries in the e.u. depending on the outcome, brexit could necessitate a rapid and significant expansion in the scope of gsbe activities, as well as its headcount, balance sheet, and capital and funding needs. although we have invested significant resources to plan for and address brexit, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our strategy. in addition, even if we are able to successfully execute our strategy, we face the risk that brexit could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our e.u operations compared to some of our competitors who have more extensive pre-existing operations in the e.u. outside of the u.k. in addition, brexit has created an uncertain political and economic environment in the u.k., and may create such environments in other e.u. member states. political and economic uncertainty has in the past led to, and the outcome of brexit could lead to, declines in market liquidity and activity levels, volatile market conditions, a contraction of available credit, changes in interest rates or exchange rates, weaker economic growth and reduced business confidence all of which could adversely impact our business. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivative contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress, increased volatility and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities. the number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act, and similar rules adopted in other jurisdictions, require issuers of certain asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates certain asset-backed securities transactions to retain economic exposure to the asset, which has affected the cost of and structures used in connection with these securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer, including sovereign issuers, or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the e.u., and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, has led to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which has significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this consolidation and convergence has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. 36 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, in response to competitive pressure we have experienced, we have extended and priced credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a significant volume of transactions occur among a limited number of members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including treble damages. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities and commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the u.s. we have increased and intend to further increase our consumer-oriented deposit-taking and lending activities. to the extent we engage in such activities or similar consumer-oriented activities, we could face additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and significantly increased retention and transmission of customer and client information. as a result of a recent information security event involving a credit reporting agency, identity fraud may increase and industry practices may change in a manner that makes it more difficult for financial institutions, such as us, to evaluate the creditworthiness of consumers. new business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated clients, counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which certain assets are being operated or held or in which we interact with these counterparties. legal, regulatory and reputational risks may also exist in connection with activities and transactions involving new products or markets where there is regulatory uncertainty or where there are different or conflicting regulations depending on the regulator or the jurisdiction involved, particularly where transactions in such products may involve multiple jurisdictions. in recent years, we have invested, and may continue to invest, more in businesses that we expect will generate a higher level of more consistent revenues. such investments may not be successful or have returns similar to our other businesses. our results may be adversely affected by the composition of our client base. our client base is not the same as that of our major competitors. our businesses may have a higher or lower percentage of clients in certain industries or markets than some or all of our competitors. therefore, unfavorable industry developments or market conditions affecting certain industries or markets may result in our businesses underperforming relative to similar businesses of a competitor if our businesses have a higher concentration of clients in such industries or markets. for example, our market-making businesses have a higher percentage of clients with actively managed assets than our competitors and such clients have been disproportionately affected during recent periods of low volatility. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries correspondingly, favorable or simply less adverse developments or market conditions involving industries or markets in a business where we have a lower concentration of clients in such industry or market may also result in our underperforming relative to a similar business of a competitor that has a higher concentration of clients in such industry or market. for example, we have a smaller corporate client base in our market-making businesses than many of our peers and therefore such competitors may benefit more from increased activity by corporate clients. derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk, as well as increased costs to us. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda protocols and being subject to the frb and fdic rules on qfcs and similar rules in other jurisdictions, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. various non-u.s. regulators have also proposed regulations contemplated by the isda universal protocol, and those implementing regulations may result in additional limitations on our ability to exercise remedies against counterparties. the impact of the isda protocols and these rules and regulations will depend on the development of market practices and structures, and they extend to repurchase agreements and other instruments that are not derivative contracts. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to central clearing platforms. certain of our businesses, our funding and financial products may be adversely affected by changes in or the discontinuance of interbank offered rates (ibors), in particular libor. the fca, which regulates libor, has announced that it will not compel panel banks to contribute to libor after 2021. it is likely that banks will not continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor after 2021 and possibly prior to then. similarly, it is not possible to know whether libor will continue to be viewed as an acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may have on the financial markets for libor-linked financial instruments. similar statements have been made with respect to other ibors. 38 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries uncertainty regarding ibors and the taking of discretionary actions or negotiation of fallback provisions could result in pricing volatility, loss of market share in certain products, adverse tax or accounting impacts, compliance, legal and operational costs and risks associated with client disclosures, as well as systems disruption, model disruption and other business continuity issues. in addition, uncertainty relating to ibors could result in increased capital requirements for the firm given potential low transaction volumes, a lack of liquidity or limited observability for exposures linked to ibors or any emerging successor rates and operational incidents associated with changes in and the discontinuance of ibors. the language in our contracts and financial instruments that define ibors, in particular libor, have developed over time and may have various events that trigger when a successor rate to the designated rate would be selected. if a trigger is satisfied, contracts and financial instruments may give the calculation agent (which may be us) discretion over the successor rate or benchmark to be selected. as a result, there is considerable uncertainty as to how the financial services industry will address the discontinuance of designated rates in contracts and financial instruments or such designated rates ceasing to be acceptable reference rates. this uncertainty could ultimately result in client disputes and litigation surrounding the proper interpretation of our ibor-based contracts and financial instruments. further, the discontinuation of an ibor, changes in an ibor or changes in market acceptance of any ibor as a reference rate may also adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by us, amounts paid on securities we have issued, amounts received and paid on derivative instruments we have entered into, the value of such loans, securities or derivative instruments, the trading market for securities, the terms of new loans being made using different or modified reference rates, our ability to effectively use derivative instruments to manage risk, or the availability or cost of our floating-rate funding and our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. certain of our businesses and our funding may be adversely affected by changes in other reference rates, currencies, indexes, baskets or etfs to which products we offer or funding that we raise are linked. all of our floating rate funding pays interest by reference to rates, such as libor or federal funds. in addition, many of the products that we own or that we offer, such as structured notes, warrants, swaps or security-based swaps, pay interest or determine the principal amount to be paid at maturity or in the event of default by reference to rates or by reference to an index, currency, basket, etf or other financial metric (the underlier). in the event that the composition of the underlier is significantly changed, by reference to rules governing such underlier or otherwise, the underlier ceases to exist (for example, in the event that a country withdraws from the euro or links its currency to or delinks its currency from another currency or benchmark, or an index or etf sponsor materially alters the composition of an index or etf) or the underlier ceases to be recognized as an acceptable market benchmark, we may experience adverse effects consistent with those described above for ibors. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled people; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include the level and composition of our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. as a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our employees is in the form of year-end discretionary compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, including the technology industry, for qualified employees has often been intense. recently, we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the demands of new regulatory requirements, expanding consumer-oriented businesses and our technology initiatives. this is also the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the frb. as a large global financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the frb, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing (including, in some cases, press coverage and public statements that do not directly involve us) often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. substantial civil or criminal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see notes 18 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information about certain legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our headcount. additionally, governmental entities have been and are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future civil or criminal actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil litigation that is often commenced after regulatory settlements. significant settlements by several large financial institutions, including, in some cases, us, with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. recently, claims of collusion or anti-competitive conduct have become more common. civil cases have been brought against financial institutions (including us) alleging bid rigging, group boycotts or other anti-competitive practices. antitrust laws generally provide for joint and several liability and treble damages. these claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in significant settlements. we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, including the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. violation of these or similar laws and regulations could result in significant monetary penalties, severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation. 40 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries certain law enforcement authorities have recently required admissions of wrongdoing, and, in some cases, criminal pleas, as part of the resolutions of matters brought by them against financial institutions or their employees. any such resolution of a criminal matter involving us or our employees could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our activities generally or in certain circumstances and could have other negative effects. in addition, the u.s. department of justice (doj) has announced a policy of requiring companies to provide investigators with all relevant facts relating to the individuals substantially involved in or responsible for the alleged misconduct in order to qualify for any cooperation credit in criminal investigations of corporate wrongdoing, or maximum cooperation credit in civil investigations of corporate wrongdoing. this policy may result in us incurring increased fines and penalties if the doj determines that we have not provided sufficient information about applicable individuals in connection with an investigation, as well as increased costs in responding to doj investigations. it is possible that other governmental authorities will adopt similar policies. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and transport, and engage in market making of commodities. the commodities involved in these activities may include crude oil, refined oil products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight and related products and indices. in our investing and lending businesses, we make investments in and finance entities that engage in the production, storage and transportation of numerous commodities, including many of the commodities referenced above. these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and adversely affect the profitability of certain of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. for example, the frb has proposed regulations that could impose significant additional capital requirements on certain commodity-related activities. if that occurs, we may receive a value that is less than the then carrying value, as we may be unable to exit these activities in an orderly transaction. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and the e.u. on certain individuals and companies in russia. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market, but also on our reputation generally. further, in some jurisdictions a failure to comply with laws and regulations may subject us and our personnel not only to civil actions, but also criminal actions. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding throughout the world, including in emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. 42 goldman sachs 2018 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the fcpa, the usa patriot act and the u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. this misconduct may include intentional efforts to ignore or circumvent applicable policies, rules or procedures. this misconduct has included and may also include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. see for example, 1malaysia development berhad (1mdb)-related matters in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as the ebola or zika viruses, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, both directly and through their impact on client activity levels and creditworthiness. these conditions can change suddenly and negatively. our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. a favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, regulatory and market conditions that result in transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, clear regulations and strong business earnings. unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor, business or consumer confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or default rates; concerns about sovereign defaults; uncertainty concerning fiscal or monetary policy, government shutdowns, debt ceilings or funding; the extent of and uncertainty about tax and other regulatory changes; the imposition of tariffs or other limitations on international trade and travel; outbreaks of domestic or international tensions or hostilities, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, cyber security threats or attacks and other forms of disruption to or curtailment of global communication, energy transmission or transportation networks or other geopolitical instability or uncertainty, such as brexit; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or other natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. the financial services industry and the securities and other financial markets have been materially and adversely affected in the past by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes, by a serious lack of liquidity and by high levels of borrower defaults. in addition, concerns about european sovereign debt risk and its impact on the european banking system, the impact of brexit, the imposition of tariffs and actions taken by other countries in response, and changes in interest rates and other market conditions or actual changes in interest rates and other market conditions, have resulted, at times, in significant volatility while negatively impacting the levels of client activity. general uncertainty about economic, political and market activities, and the scope, timing and impact of regulatory reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and ceo confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, has in the past negatively impacted client activity, which can adversely affect many of our businesses. periods of low volatility and periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity, have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-making businesses. financial institution returns in many countries may be negatively impacted by increased funding costs due in part to the lack of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises relative to financial institutions in countries in which governmental support is maintained. in addition, liquidity in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures continue to adjust to new regulations. our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on which and, if permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 23 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. as a participant in the financial services industry and a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. we face the risk of significant intervention by law enforcement, regulatory and taxing authorities, as well as private litigation, in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. in many cases, our activities have been and may continue to be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. among other things, as a result of law enforcement authorities, regulators or private parties challenging our compliance with existing laws and regulations, we or our employees have been, and could be, fined, criminally charged or sanctioned; prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities; subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including higher capital requirements; or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect to our employees. these limitations or conditions may limit our business activities and negatively impact our profitability. in addition to the impact on the scope and profitability of our business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws and regulations has involved and will, except to the extent that some of these regulations are modified or otherwise repealed, continue to involve significant amounts of time, including that of our senior leaders and that of a large number of dedicated compliance and other reporting and operational personnel, all of which may negatively impact our profitability. if there are new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting requirements, requirements relating to recovery and resolution planning, tax burdens and compensation restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (whether based on size, method of funding, activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way. in addition, regulation imposed on financial institutions or market participants generally, such as taxes on financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of market activity more broadly, and thus impact our businesses. these developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in those jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other locations or complying with applicable capital requirements, including reducing dividends or share repurchases, liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory developments, in particular the dodd-frank act and basel iii, have significantly altered the regulatory framework within which we operate and have adversely affected and may in the future affect our profitability. among the aspects of the dodd-frank act that have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased regulation of and restrictions on otc derivatives markets and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers in dealing with clients. the implementation of higher capital requirements, more stringent requirements relating to liquidity, long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, covered funds by the volcker rule may continue to adversely affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly if these requirements do not apply equally to our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across jurisdictions. as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our proposed capital actions and capital plan are reviewed by the frb as part of the ccar process. if the frb objects to our proposed capital actions in our capital plan, we could be prohibited from taking some or all of the proposed capital actions, including increasing or paying dividends on common or preferred stock or repurchasing common stock or other capital securities. our inability to carry out our proposed capital actions could, among other things, prevent us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our return on equity. additionally, as a consequence of our designation as a g-sib, we are subject to the g-sib buffer. our g-sib buffer is updated annually based on financial data from the prior year. expansion of our businesses, growth in our balance sheet or increased reliance on short-term wholesale funding may result in an increase in our g-sib buffer and a corresponding increase in our capital requirements. 24 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to laws and regulations, such as the gdpr and the california consumer privacy act, relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. as new privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology. we have entered into consumer-oriented deposit-taking, lending and credit card businesses, and we expect to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings. entering into these businesses subjects us to numerous additional regulations in the jurisdictions in which these businesses operate. not only are these regulations extensive, but they involve types of regulations and supervision, as well as regulatory compliance risks, that we have not previously encountered. the level of regulatory scrutiny and the scope of regulations affecting financial interactions with consumers is often much greater than that associated with doing business with institutions and high-net-worth individuals. complying with these regulations is time-consuming, costly and presents new and increased risks. increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability as a control person for activities of entities in which financial institutions or funds controlled by financial institutions have an investment, but which they do not actively manage. in addition, regulators and courts continue to seek to establish fiduciary obligations to counterparties to which no such duty had been assumed to exist. to the extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, market-making, prime brokerage, investing and other similar activities could increase significantly. to the extent that we have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a financial adviser or investment adviser or in other roles for individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations could have materially negative legal, regulatory and reputational consequences. for information about the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for those businesses in which we have net long positions, receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral. many of our businesses have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. these include positions we take when we act as a principal to facilitate our clients' activities, including our exchange-based market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and mortgage-related activities. in addition, we invest in similar asset classes. substantially all of our investing and market-making positions and a portion of our loans are marked-to-market on a daily basis and declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to those declines. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 25 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in certain circumstances (particularly in the case of credit products, including leveraged loans, and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge our exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets have in the past and may in the future substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. the inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may negatively affect our capital, liquidity or leverage ratios, increase our funding costs and generally require us to maintain additional capital. in our exchange-based market-making activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing securities in a declining market. in markets where asset values are declining and in volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need for liquidity. we receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients' portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. declines in asset values would ordinarily reduce the value of our clients' portfolios or fund assets, which in turn would ordinarily reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. we post collateral to support our obligations and receive collateral to support the obligations of our clients and counterparties in connection with our client execution businesses. when the value of the assets posted as collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading position. an example of such a situation is a margin call in connection with a brokerage account. therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of positions is decreased. if we are the party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. in addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets, which can lead to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. in cases where we foreclose on collateral, sudden declines in the value or liquidity of the collateral may, despite credit monitoring, over-collateralization, the ability to call for additional collateral or the ability to force repayment of the underlying obligation, result in significant losses to us, especially where there is a single type of collateral supporting the obligation. in addition, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that the foreclosure was not permitted under the legal documents, was conducted in an improper manner or caused a client or counterparty to go out of business. our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so in the future. we fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing long-term debt, by accepting deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid financial instruments or by obtaining loans or lines of credit from commercial or other banking entities. we seek to finance many of our assets on a secured basis. any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. if our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and market making. our clients engaging in mergers, acquisitions and other types of strategic transactions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. a lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients' merger and acquisition transactions, particularly large transactions, and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses. our credit businesses have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. a lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of which can increase transaction risk or decrease the profitability of these businesses. 26 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries our market-making activities have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in volatility have reduced and may in the future reduce these opportunities and the level of client activity associated with them and adversely affect the results of these activities. increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value-at-risk (var) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making activities or cause us to reduce our inventory in order to avoid increasing our var. limiting the size of our market-making positions can adversely affect our profitability. in periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. in those circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to decrease our var. in addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our rwas, which increases our capital requirements. our investment banking, client execution, asset management and wealth management businesses have been adversely affected and may in the future be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among investors and ceos due to general declines in economic activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions. our investment banking business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by market conditions. poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions may adversely affect and have in the past adversely affected investor and ceo confidence, resulting in significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which would likely have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. in particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues is derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions has in the past and would in the future adversely affect our investment banking business. in certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines in market or economic activity may affect our client execution businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes or higher spreads or both. market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our asset management and wealth management businesses. even if clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. our asset management and wealth management businesses may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products or a client preference for products other than those which we offer or for products that generate lower fees. poor investment returns in our asset management and wealth management businesses, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. this could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under supervision or the commissions and net spreads that we earn for selling other investment products, such as structured notes or derivatives. to the extent that our clients choose to invest in products that we do not currently offer, we will suffer outflows and a loss of management fees. further, if, due to changes in investor sentiment or the relative performance of certain asset classes or otherwise, clients invest in products that generate lower fees (e.g., passively managed or fixed income products), our asset management and wealth management businesses could be adversely affected. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 27 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. we seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from market-making, investing or lending positions, and underwriting activities, with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. thus, in the course of our activities, we have incurred and may in the future incur losses. market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. the models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. these changes in correlation have been and may in the future be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. in these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. in addition, the use of models in connection with risk management and numerous other critical activities presents risks that such models may be ineffective, either because of poor design, ineffective testing, or improper or flawed inputs, as well as unpermitted access to such models resulting in unapproved or malicious changes to the model or its inputs. to the extent that we have positions through our market-making or origination activities or we make investments directly through our investing activities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with those positions. in addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments. prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging activities. as we have expanded and intend to continue to expand the product and geographic scope of our offerings of credit products to consumers, we are presented with different credit risks and must expand and adapt our credit risk monitoring and mitigation activities to account for these business activities. a failure to adequately assess and control such risk exposures could result in losses to us. for further information about our risk management policies and procedures, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads. liquidity is essential to our businesses. it is of critical importance to us, as most of the failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity. our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. 28 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we employ structured products to benefit our clients and hedge our own risks. the financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. our investing and financing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if there is not generally a liquid market for such assets, as well as in circumstances where other market participants are seeking to sell similar otherwise generally liquid assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in response to changes to rules or regulations. in addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our liquidity. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require us to post additional collateral. termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. as of december 2019, our counterparties could have called for additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an aggregate amount of $358 million in the event of a one-notch downgrade of our credit ratings and $1.27 billion in the event of a two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings. a downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the agency's relative ratings of us at the time of the downgrade, may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by all rating agencies. for further information about our credit ratings, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management liquidity risk management credit ratings in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest rate of benchmark securities that we need to pay). increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this funding. changes in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. our credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness and movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. the market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency or liquidity. regulatory changes relating to liquidity may also negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. numerous regulations have been adopted or proposed to introduce more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions. these regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements, wholesale funding, limitations on the issuance of short-term debt and structured notes and prohibitions on parent guarantees that are subject to certain cross-defaults. new and prospective liquidity-related regulations may overlap with, and be impacted by, other regulatory changes, including rules relating to minimum long-term debt requirements and tlac, guidance on the treatment of brokered deposits and the capital, leverage and resolution and recovery frameworks applicable to large financial institutions. given the overlap and complex interactions among these new and prospective regulations, they may have unintended cumulative effects, and their full impact will remain uncertain, while regulatory reforms are being adopted and market practices develop. we face enhanced risks as new business initiatives and acquisitions lead us to engage in new activities, transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses, including through acquisitions, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base, expose us to new asset classes and new markets, and present us with integration challenges. for example, we continue to transact business and invest in new regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth markets. furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we make markets, invest and lend, we own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of, public services, such as airports, toll roads and shipping ports, as well as physical commodities and commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the u.s. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 29 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we have increased and intend to further increase our consumer-oriented deposit-taking and lending activities. for example, during 2019, we started to issue credit cards to consumers. to the extent we engage in those and other consumer-oriented activities, we have faced, and would continue to face, additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and significantly increased retention and transmission of consumer and client information. we are also subject to additional legal requirements, including with respect to suitability and consumer protection (for example, regulation best interest, fair lending laws and regulations and privacy laws and regulations). further, identity fraud may increase and credit reporting practices may change in a manner that makes it more difficult for financial institutions, such as us, to evaluate the creditworthiness of consumers. we have increased and intend to further increase our transaction banking activities. as a result, we expect to face additional compliance, legal and regulatory risk, including with respect to know-your-customer, anti-money laundering and reporting requirements and prohibitions on transfers of property belonging to countries, entities and individuals subject to sanctions by u.s. or other governmental authorities. new business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from dealing with different types of clients, counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which certain assets are being operated or held or in which we interact with these counterparties. legal, regulatory and reputational risks may also exist in connection with activities and transactions involving new products or markets where there is regulatory uncertainty or where there are different or conflicting regulations depending on the regulator or the jurisdiction involved, particularly where transactions in such products may involve multiple jurisdictions. we have developed and pursued new business and strategic initiatives, and expect to continue to do so. if and to the extent we are unable to successfully execute those initiatives, we may incur unanticipated costs and losses, and face other adverse consequences, such as negative reputational effects. in addition, the actual effects of pursuing those initiatives may differ, possibly materially, from the benefits that we expect to realize from them, such as generating additional revenues, achieving expense savings, reducing operational risk exposures or using capital and funding more efficiently. engaging in new activities exposes us to a variety of risks, including that we may be unable to successfully develop new, competitive, efficient and effective systems and processes, and hire and retain the necessary personnel. due to our lack of historical experience with unsecured retail lending, our loan loss assumptions may prove to be incorrect and we may incur losses significantly above those which we originally anticipated in entering the business. in recent years, we have invested, and may continue to invest, more in businesses that we expect will generate a higher level of more consistent revenues. in order to develop and be able to offer consumer financial products that compete effectively, we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in technology and human capital resources in connection with our consumer-oriented activities. such investments may not be successful or have returns similar to our other businesses. our operating expenses and efficiency ratio depend, in part, on our overall headcount and the proportion of our employees that are located in strategic locations. our future human capital resource requirements and the benefits provided by strategic locations are uncertain, and we may not realize the benefits we anticipate. a failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as human error, malfeasance or other misconduct, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. these transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. 30 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries many rules and regulations worldwide govern our obligations to execute transactions and report such transactions and other information to regulators, exchanges and investors. compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can be challenging, and we have been, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to follow these rules or to report timely, accurate and complete information in accordance with these rules. as such requirements expand, compliance with these rules and regulations has become more challenging. as our client base, including through our consumer businesses, and our geographical reach expand and the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and exchanges) increase, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging, and the risk of systems or human error in connection with such transactions increases, as well as the potential consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. as with other similarly situated institutions, we utilize credit underwriting models in connection with our businesses, including our consumer-oriented activities. allegations, whether or not accurate, that the ultimate underwriting decisions do not treat consumers or clients fairly, or comply with the applicable law or regulation, can result in negative publicity, reputational damage and governmental and regulatory scrutiny. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operational systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. we must continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training to pursue our objective of ensuring that such transactions do not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our clients and counterparties or us. enhancements and updates to systems, as well as the requisite training, including in connection with the integration of new businesses, entail significant costs and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. the use of computing devices and phones is critical to the work done by our employees and the operation of our systems and businesses and those of our clients and our third-party service providers and vendors. computers and computer networks are subject to various risks, including, among others, cyber attacks, inherent technological defects, system failures and errors by human operators. for example, fundamental security flaws in computer chips found in many types of these computing devices and phones have been reported in the past and may be discovered in the future. cloud technologies are also critical to the operation of our systems and platforms and our reliance on cloud technologies is growing. service disruptions may lead to delays in accessing, or the loss of, data that is important to our businesses and may hinder our clients' access to our platforms. addressing these and similar issues could be costly and affect the performance of these businesses and systems. operational risks may be incurred in applying fixes and there may still be residual security risks. additionally, although the prevalence and scope of applications of distributed ledger technology and similar technologies is growing, the technology is also nascent and may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or have other inherent weaknesses. we may be, or may become, exposed to risks related to distributed ledger technology through our facilitation of clients' activities involving financial products linked to distributed ledger technology, such as blockchain or cryptocurrencies, our investments in companies that seek to develop platforms based on distributed ledger technology, and the use of distributed ledger technology by third-party vendors, clients, counterparties, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on people as our greatest resource, and, from time to time, they make mistakes or engage in violations of applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures that are not always caught immediately by our technological processes or by our controls and other procedures, which are intended to prevent and detect such errors or violations. these can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails, errors in software or model development or implementation, or simple errors in judgment, as well as intentional efforts to ignore or circumvent applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures. human errors, malfeasance and other misconduct, including the intentional misuse of client information in connection with insider trading or for other purposes, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in reputational damage and material losses and liabilities for us. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 31 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, we face the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay with respect to our clients' systems. there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure to operational failure or significant operational delay, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, delay, termination or constraint. industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure or significant operational delay as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. despite our resiliency plans and facilities, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or other communications, internet, transportation or other facilities used by us, our employees or third parties with which we conduct business, including cloud service providers. these disruptions may occur as a result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political developments, pandemics and weather events. in addition, although we seek to diversify our third-party vendors to increase our resiliency, we are also exposed to the risk that a disruption or other information technology event at a common service provider to our vendors could impede their ability to provide products or services to us. we may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational risks relating to our vendors' use of common service providers. nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the new york metropolitan area, london, bengaluru, hong kong, tokyo and salt lake city, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the new york metropolitan area, and our two principal office buildings in the new york area both are located on the waterfront of the hudson river, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our new york metropolitan area offices, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. a failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients' information, against cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks and those of our vendors. there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving financial services companies, consumer-based companies, governmental agencies and other organizations reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client, customer or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. there have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information or for restoring access to information or systems. 32 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect the integrity and functionality of our technology infrastructure and access to and the security of our data. we may face an increasing number of attempted cyber attacks as we expand our mobile- and other internet-based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies, and as we provide more of these services to a greater number of individual consumers. the increasing migration of our communication from devices we provide to employee-owned devices presents additional risks of cyber attacks. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors (and their respective service providers), central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. these impacts could include the loss of access to information or services from the third party subject to the cyber attack or other information security event, which could, in turn, interrupt certain of our businesses. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with or sponsored by foreign governments or are involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals in our offices or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although we take protective measures proactively and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks on our vendors and other events that could have a security impact. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our protective measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. in addition, protective measures that we employ to compartmentalize our data may reduce our visibility into, and adversely affect our ability to respond to, cyber threats and issues with our systems. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in, or transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or those of our clients, counterparties or third parties, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in legal or regulatory action, significant losses or reputational damage. in addition, such an event could persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and, following detection, it could take considerable time for us to obtain full and reliable information about the extent, amount and type of information compromised. during the course of an investigation, we may not know the full impact of the event and how to remediate it, and actions, decisions and mistakes that are taken or made may further increase the negative effects of the event on our business, results of operations and reputation. we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, significant resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be ineffective and we may be subject to legal or regulatory action, as well as financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. our clients' confidential information may also be at risk from the compromise of clients' personal electronic devices or as a result of a data security breach at an unrelated company. losses due to unauthorized account activity could harm our reputation and may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. in addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 33 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. we have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by brexit. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. left the e.u. as discussed in business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k we expect considerable change in the regulatory framework that will govern transactions and business undertaken by our u.k. subsidiaries in the e.u. as a result, we face numerous risks that could adversely affect how we conduct our businesses or our profitability and liquidity. our principal subsidiaries operating in the e.u., gsi, gsib and gsami, are incorporated and headquartered in the u.k. they all currently benefit from non-discriminatory access to e.u. clients and infrastructure based on e.u. treaties and e.u. legislation, including arrangements for cross-border passporting and the establishment of e.u. branches. the e.u and the u.k. parliament have ratified the withdrawal agreement, which provides for a transition period for the u.k. and e.u. to negotiate and agree to a framework for their future relationship. the transition period is currently scheduled to end on december 31, 2020 and the relationship between the u.k and e.u. beyond that date is uncertain. at the end of the transition period, firms based in the u.k. are expected to lose their existing access arrangements to the e.u. markets. as necessary, our german bank subsidiary, gsbe, will act as our main operating subsidiary in the e.u. and will assume certain functions that can no longer be efficiently and effectively performed by our u.k. operating subsidiaries, including gsi, gsib and gsami. implementing this strategy could materially adversely affect the manner in which we operate certain businesses in europe, require us to restructure certain of our operations and expose us to higher operational, regulatory and compliance costs, higher taxes, higher subsidiary-level capital and liquidity requirements, additional restrictions on intercompany transactions, and new restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to share personal data, including client data, all of which could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. we have strengthened the capabilities of our operating subsidiaries in the remaining e.u. countries, particularly gsbe. depending on the terms of the future relationship between the u.k. and e.u., brexit could necessitate a rapid and significant expansion in the scope of gsbe's activities, as well as its headcount, balance sheet, and capital and funding needs. although we have invested significant resources to plan for and address brexit, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our strategy. in addition, even if we are able to successfully execute our strategy, we face the risk that brexit could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our e.u operations compared to some of our competitors who have more extensive pre-existing operations in the e.u. outside of the u.k. in addition, brexit has created an uncertain political and economic environment in the u.k., and may create such environments in current e.u. member states. political and economic uncertainty has in the past led to, and the impact of brexit could lead to, declines in market liquidity and activity levels, volatile market conditions, a contraction of available credit, changes in interest rates or exchange rates, weaker economic growth and reduced business confidence all of which could adversely impact our business. our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. a failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. 34 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivative contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. a significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. while in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. the termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral typically increase significantly in times of market stress, increased volatility and illiquidity. as part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we finance our clients' positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and financing activities. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and financing activities. the number and size of these transactions has affected and may in the future affect our results of operations in a given period. moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or economically. in addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act, and similar rules adopted in other jurisdictions, require issuers of certain asset-backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates certain asset-backed securities transactions to retain economic exposure to the asset, which has affected the cost of and structures used in connection with these securitization activities. our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during periods of market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans. in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower, issuer (including sovereign issuers) or geographic area or group of related countries, such as the e.u., and a failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries, countries and regions may not function as we have anticipated. regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, has led to increased centralization of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, which has significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. while our activities expose us to many different industries, counterparties and countries, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. this has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to these counterparties. the financial services industry is both highly competitive and interrelated. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price. there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. this has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. as a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 35 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries governments and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or otherwise put forward various proposals that have impacted or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. these or other similar rules, many of which do not apply to all our u.s. or non-u.s. competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for example, in connection with investment banking and other assignments, in response to competitive pressure we have experienced, we have extended and priced credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. the financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a significant volume of transactions occur among a limited number of members of that industry. many transactions are syndicated to other financial institutions and financial institutions are often counterparties in transactions. this has led to claims by other market participants and regulators that such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust laws have been violated. while we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such activities, allegations of such activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including treble damages. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of that client or another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our other businesses and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. in addition, our status as a bhc subjects us to heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the frb with respect to transactions between gs bank usa and entities that are or could be viewed as affiliates of ours and, under the volcker rule, transactions between us and covered funds. we have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. additionally, our one goldman sachs initiative aims to increase collaboration among our businesses, which may increase the potential for actual or perceived conflicts of interest and improper information sharing. our results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by the composition of our client base. our client base is not the same as that of our major competitors. our businesses may have a higher or lower percentage of clients in certain industries or markets than some or all of our competitors. therefore, unfavorable industry developments or market conditions affecting certain industries or markets have resulted in the past and may result in the future in our businesses underperforming relative to similar businesses of a competitor if our businesses have a higher concentration of clients in such industries or markets. for example, our market-making businesses have a higher percentage of clients with actively managed assets than our competitors and such clients have in the past and may in the future be disproportionately affected by low volatility. correspondingly, favorable or simply less adverse developments or market conditions involving industries or markets in a business where we have a lower concentration of clients in such industry or market have also resulted in the past and may result in the future in our underperforming relative to a similar business of a competitor that has a higher concentration of clients in such industry or market. for example, we have a smaller corporate client base in our market-making businesses than many of our peers and therefore those competitors may benefit more from increased activity by corporate clients. 36 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives. many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions difficult. many credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. in a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or other obligation. this could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk, as well as increased costs to us. derivative transactions may also involve the risk that documentation has not been properly executed, that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to be netted against other obligations with such counterparty. in addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions were not appropriate or authorized. as a signatory to the isda universal protocol or u.s. isda protocol (isda protocols) and being subject to the frb's and fdic's rules on qfcs and similar rules in other jurisdictions, we may not be able to exercise remedies against counterparties and, as this new regime has not yet been tested, we may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a termination event. various non-u.s. regulators have also proposed regulations contemplated by the isda universal protocol, and those implementing regulations may result in additional limitations on our ability to exercise remedies against counterparties. the isda protocols and these rules and regulations extend to repurchase agreements and other instruments that are not derivative contracts, and their impact will depend on the development of market practices and structures. derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. while the transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights. in addition, as new complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. the provisions of the dodd-frank act requiring central clearing of credit derivatives and other otc derivatives, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with these transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability and increase our credit exposure to central clearing platforms. certain of our businesses, our funding and financial products may be adversely affected by changes in or the discontinuance of interbank offered rates (ibors), in particular libor. the fca, which regulates libor, has announced that it will not compel panel banks to contribute to libor after 2021. it is likely that banks will not continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor after 2021 and possibly prior to then. similarly, it is not possible to know whether libor will continue to be viewed as an acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may have on the financial markets for libor-linked financial instruments. similar statements have been made with respect to other ibors. uncertainty regarding ibors and the taking of discretionary actions or negotiation of fallback provisions could result in pricing volatility, loss of market share in certain products, adverse tax or accounting impacts, compliance, legal and operational costs and risks associated with client disclosures, as well as systems disruption, model disruption and other business continuity issues. in addition, uncertainty relating to ibors could result in increased capital requirements for us given potential low transaction volumes, a lack of liquidity or limited observability for exposures linked to ibors or any emerging successor rates and operational incidents associated with changes in and the discontinuance of ibors. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 37 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the language in our contracts and financial instruments that define ibors, in particular libor, have developed over time and have various events that trigger when a successor rate to the designated rate would be selected. if a trigger is satisfied, contracts and financial instruments often give the calculation agent (which may be us) discretion over the successor rate or benchmark to be selected. as a result, there is considerable uncertainty as to how the financial services industry will address the discontinuance of designated rates in contracts and financial instruments or such designated rates ceasing to be acceptable reference rates. this uncertainty could ultimately result in client disputes and litigation surrounding the proper interpretation of our ibor-based contracts and financial instruments. further, the discontinuation of an ibor, changes in an ibor or changes in market acceptance of any ibor as a reference rate may also adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by us, amounts paid on securities we have issued, amounts received and paid on derivative instruments we have entered into, the value of such loans, securities or derivative instruments, the trading market for securities, the terms of new loans being made using different or modified reference rates, our ability to effectively use derivative instruments to manage risk, or the availability or cost of our floating-rate funding and our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. certain of our businesses and our funding may be adversely affected by changes in other reference rates, currencies, indexes, baskets or etfs to which products we offer or funding that we raise are linked. many of the products that we own or that we offer, such as structured notes, warrants, swaps or security-based swaps, pay interest or determine the principal amount to be paid at maturity or in the event of default by reference to rates or by reference to an index, currency, basket, etf or other financial metric (the underlier). in the event that the composition of the underlier is significantly changed, by reference to rules governing such underlier or otherwise, the underlier ceases to exist (for example, in the event that a country withdraws from the euro or links its currency to or delinks its currency from another currency or benchmark, or an index or etf sponsor materially alters the composition of an index or etf) or the underlier ceases to be recognized as an acceptable market benchmark, we may experience adverse effects consistent with those described above for ibors. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled people; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include the level and composition of our compensation and benefits, and our reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly hiring, training and promoting qualified employees. as a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our employees is in the form of year-end discretionary compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees. competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, including the technology industry, for qualified employees has often been intense. we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the demands of new regulatory requirements, expanding consumer-oriented businesses and our technology initiatives. this is also the case in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. changes in law or regulation in jurisdictions in which our operations are located that affect taxes on our employees' income, or the amount or composition of compensation, may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees in those jurisdictions. as described further in business regulation compensation practices in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k, our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the standards of, the frb. as a large global financial and banking institution, we are subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the frb, the pra, the fca, the fdic and other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including any imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation, may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. 38 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. the financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing (including, in some cases, press coverage and public statements that do not directly involve us) often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. the financial services industry generally and our businesses in particular have been subject to negative publicity. our reputation and businesses may be adversely affected by negative publicity or information regarding our businesses and personnel, whether or not accurate or true, that may be posted on social media or other internet forums or published by news organizations. the speed and pervasiveness with which information can be disseminated through these channels, in particular social media, may magnify risks relating to negative publicity. substantial civil or criminal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. see notes 18 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information about certain legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in which we are involved. our experience has been that legal claims by consumers and clients increase in a market downturn and that employment-related claims increase following periods in which we have reduced our headcount. additionally, governmental entities have been and are plaintiffs in certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, and we may face future civil or criminal actions or claims by the same or other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil litigation that is often commenced after regulatory settlements. significant settlements by several large financial institutions, including, in some cases, us, with governmental entities have been publicly announced. the trend of large settlements with governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions in similar actions, especially where governmental officials have announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis or a template for other settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or penalties. claims of collusion or anti-competitive conduct have become more common. civil cases have been brought against financial institutions (including us) alleging bid rigging, group boycotts or other anti-competitive practices. antitrust laws generally provide for joint and several liability and treble damages. these claims have resulted in significant settlements in the past and may do so in the future. we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, including the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. violation of these or similar laws and regulations could result in significant monetary penalties, severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 39 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries certain law enforcement authorities have recently required admissions of wrongdoing, and, in some cases, criminal pleas, as part of the resolutions of matters brought against financial institutions or their employees. any such resolution of a criminal matter involving us or our employees could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our activities generally or in certain circumstances and could have other negative effects. group inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions. group inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to group inc. in addition, our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of group inc., including under the frb's source of strength requirement, and even require group inc. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that group inc. needs to make payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. in addition, group inc.'s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. there has been a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to ring fence or require internal total loss-absorbing capacity (which may also be subject to bail-in powers, as described below) at those entities in order to protect clients and creditors of those entities in the event of financial difficulties involving those entities. the result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by us on a consolidated basis. furthermore, group inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including gs&amp;co. and gs bank usa, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, group inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction basis, as negotiated with counterparties. these guarantees may require group inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when group inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. the requirements for us and gs bank usa to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at group inc. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may reduce our ability to provide group inc. guarantees of the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at group inc. resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution planning may cause us to be subject to additional taxes. any such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany dividends or payments. see business regulation in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k for further information about regulatory restrictions. 40 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of regulatory strategies and requirements in the u.s. and non-u.s. jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions could create greater risk of loss for group inc.'s security holders. as described in business regulation banking supervision and regulation insolvency of an idi or a bhc, if the fdic is appointed as receiver under ola, the rights of group inc.'s creditors would be determined under ola, and substantial differences exist in the rights of creditors between ola and the u.s. bankruptcy code, including the right of the fdic under ola to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on debtholders. the fdic has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under ola to resolve a large financial institution in a manner that would, among other things, impose losses on shareholders, debtholders and other creditors of the top-tier bhc (in our case, group inc.), while the bhc's subsidiaries may continue to operate. it is possible that the application of the single point of entry strategy under ola, in which group inc. would be the only entity to enter resolution proceedings (and its material broker-dealer, bank and other operating entities would not enter resolution proceedings), would result in greater losses to group inc.'s security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that would result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy, such as a multiple point of entry resolution strategy for group inc. and certain of its material subsidiaries. assuming group inc. entered resolution proceedings and that support from group inc. or other available resources to its subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be transferred to group inc. and ultimately borne by group inc.'s security holders, third-party creditors of group inc.'s subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and group inc.'s security holders (including our shareholders, debtholders and other unsecured creditors) could face significant and possibly complete losses. in that case, group inc.'s security holders would face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc.'s subsidiaries would incur no losses because the subsidiaries would continue to operate and would not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. in addition, holders of group inc.'s eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc.'s other debt securities could face losses ahead of its other similarly situated creditors in a resolution under ola if the fdic exercised its right, described above, to disregard the priority of creditor claims. ola also provides the fdic with authority to cause creditors and shareholders of the financial company in receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to such losses, and amounts owed to the u.s. government would generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims of private creditors, including senior creditors. in addition, under ola, claims of creditors (including debtholders) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity or other securities in a bridge entity to which group inc.'s assets are transferred. if such a securities-for-claims exchange were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for which the securities were exchanged. while the fdic has issued regulations to implement ola, not all aspects of how the fdic might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is possible. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and the e.u., have implemented, or are considering, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured debtholders. for example, the bank of england requires a certain amount of intercompany funding that we provide to our material u.k. subsidiaries to contain a contractual trigger to expressly permit the bank of england to exercise such bail-in powers in certain circumstances. if the intercompany funding we provide to our subsidiaries is bailed in, group inc.'s claims on its subsidiaries would be subordinated to the claims of the subsidiaries' third-party creditors or written down. u.s. regulators are considering and non-u.s. authorities have adopted requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier bhc and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier bhc in the event of failure. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 41 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries the application of group inc.'s proposed resolution strategy could result in greater losses for group inc.'s security holders. in our resolution plan, group inc. would be resolved under the u.s. bankruptcy code. the strategy described in our resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry strategy: group inc. and goldman sachs funding llc (funding ihc), a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of group inc., would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major subsidiaries, including through the forgiveness of intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional intercompany loans. if this strategy were successful, creditors of some or all of group inc.'s major subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, while group inc.'s security holders could face significant and possibly complete losses. to facilitate the execution of our resolution plan, we formed funding ihc. in exchange for an unsecured subordinated funding note and equity interest, group inc. transferred certain intercompany receivables and substantially all of its global core liquid assets (gcla) to funding ihc, and agreed to transfer additional gcla above prescribed thresholds. we also put in place a capital and liquidity support agreement (clsa) among group inc., funding ihc and our major subsidiaries. under the clsa, funding ihc has provided group inc. with a committed line of credit that allows group inc. to draw sufficient funds to meet its cash needs during the ordinary course of business. in addition, if our financial resources deteriorate so severely that resolution may be imminent, (i) the committed line of credit will automatically terminate and the unsecured subordinated funding note will automatically be forgiven, (ii) all intercompany receivables owed by the major subsidiaries to group inc. will be transferred to funding ihc or their maturities will be extended to five years, (iii) group inc. will be obligated to transfer substantially all of its remaining intercompany receivables and gcla (other than an amount to fund anticipated bankruptcy expenses) to funding ihc, and (iv) funding ihc will be obligated to provide capital and liquidity support to the major subsidiaries. group inc.'s and funding ihc's obligations under the clsa are secured pursuant to a related security agreement. such actions would materially and adversely affect group inc.'s liquidity. as a result, during a period of severe stress, group inc. might commence bankruptcy proceedings at an earlier time than it otherwise would if the clsa and related security agreement had not been implemented. if group inc.'s proposed resolution strategy were successful, group inc.'s security holders could face losses while the third-party creditors of group inc.'s major subsidiaries would incur no losses because those subsidiaries would continue to operate and not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. as part of the strategy, group inc. could also seek to elevate the priority of its guarantee obligations relating to its major subsidiaries' derivative contracts or transfer them to another entity so that cross-default and early termination rights would be stayed under the isda protocols, as applicable, which would result in holders of group inc.'s eligible long-term debt and holders of group inc.'s other debt securities incurring losses ahead of the beneficiaries of those guarantee obligations. it is also possible that holders of group inc.'s eligible long-term debt and other debt securities could incur losses ahead of other similarly situated creditors. if group inc.'s proposed resolution strategy were not successful, group inc.'s financial condition would be adversely impacted and group inc.'s security holders, including debtholders, may as a consequence be in a worse position than if the strategy had not been implemented. in all cases, any payments to debtholders are dependent on our ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to our credit risk. as a result of our recovery and resolution planning processes, including incorporating feedback from our regulators, we may incur increased operational, funding or other costs and face limitations on our ability to structure our internal organization or engage in internal or external activities in a manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally efficient. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. the growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue. some of these alternative trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based market-making activities, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. in addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. as our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. 42 goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries we have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades. in conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. in conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. for example, sanctions have been imposed by the u.s. and the e.u. on certain individuals and companies in russia and venezuela. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market, but also on our reputation generally. further, in some jurisdictions a failure, or alleged failure, to comply with laws and regulations has subjected, and may in the future subject, us and our personnel not only to civil actions, but also criminal actions. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding throughout the world, including in emerging and growth markets, and we expect this trend to continue. various emerging and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity, civil unrest or acts of terrorism. the possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. while business and other practices throughout the world differ, our principal entities are subject in their operations worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as well as laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the fcpa, the usa patriot act and the u.k. bribery act. while we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our operations, employees, clients and consumers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation. in addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we have had, and may in the future have, employee misconduct. this misconduct has included and may also in the future include intentional efforts to ignore or circumvent applicable policies, rules or procedures or misappropriation of funds and the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. see for example, 1malaysia development berhad (1mdb)-related matters in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs. as part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and transport, and engage in market making of commodities. the commodities involved in these activities may include crude oil, refined oil products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and precious), minerals (including unenriched uranium), emission credits, coal, freight and related products and indices. we make investments in and finance entities that engage in the production, storage and transportation of numerous commodities, including many of the commodities referenced above. goldman sachs 2019 form 10-k 43 table of contents the goldman sachs group, inc. and subsidiaries these activities subject us and/or the entities in which we invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. additionally, rising climate change concerns have led to additional regulation that could increase the operating costs and adversely affect the profitability of certain of our investments. there may be substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities and investments. compliance with these laws and regulations could require significant commitments of capital toward environmental monitoring, renovation of storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses. commodities involved in our intermediation activities and investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our control, including those arising from the breakdown or failure of transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. in addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to costs or losses. also, while we seek to insure against potential risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses. the occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our operations or financial results and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm. we may also be required to divest or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or legal reasons. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events or other natural disasters. the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, such as coronavirus, or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks, extreme terrestrial or solar weather events or other natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses. climate change concerns could disrupt our businesses, affect client activity levels and creditworthiness and damage our reputation. climate change may cause extreme weather events that disrupt operations at one or more of our primary locations, which may negatively affect our ability to service and interact with our clients, and also may adversely affect the value of our investments, including our real estate investments. climate change may also have a negative impact on the financial condition of our clients, which may decrease revenues from those clients and increase the credit risk associated with loans and other credit exposures to those clients. additionally, our reputation may be damaged as a result of our involvement, or our clients' involvement, in certain industries or projects associated with climate change. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k.