risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. 17 table of contents our supply chain relies on an extensive network of operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain. a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in asia, central america, the caribbean basin and mexico and we are continuing to add new manufacturing capacity in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacturing of many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. while we attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through employing a dollar cost averaging strategy by entering into hedging contracts from time to time, our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. the cotton prices reflected in our results were 55 cents per pound in 2009 and 65 cents per pound in 2008. the ultimate effect of these pricing levels on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, oil-related commodity prices and the costs of other raw materials used in our products, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. for example, we estimate 18 table of contents that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $3 million, at current levels of usage. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 30% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, reproduction problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. we continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories, and we are continuing to implement strategies such as supplier-managed inventory. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. as a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. we have restructured our supply chain over the past three years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the western hemisphere and asia. we have closed plant locations, reduced our workforce and relocated some of our manufacturing capacity to lower cost locations in asia, central america and the caribbean basin and our global supply chain infrastructure is substantially in place, we are now focused on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve 19 table of contents working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. if we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. the consolidation of our distribution network is still in process but will not result in any substantial charges in future periods. the distribution network consolidation involves the implementation of new warehouse management systems and technology, and opening of new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. we distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third-party logistics providers. these facilities include a combination of owned, leased and contracted distribution centers. we have reduced the number of distribution centers from the 48 that we maintained at the time of the spin off to 33 as of january 2, 2010. in january 2009, we began shipping products from a new 1.3 million square foot distribution center in perris, california. the consolidation of our distribution is still in process but will not result in any substantial charges in future periods. the distribution network consolidation involves the implementation of new warehouse management systems and technology, and opening of new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could also be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. in addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. if we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly since mid-2008 in many countries and regions, including the united states, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by our customers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, consumers uncertainty about financial conditions, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations, and the inability of retailers to overcome these difficulties may increase due to worldwide economic conditions. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in a customer financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer. our customers purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our product costs may also increase, and these increases may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. these consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our price increases that become effective from time to time. if any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties 20 table of contents leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. for example, several customers filed for bankruptcy during 2008 and 2009. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2009, our top ten customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 27% and 17% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart and target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. sales to our customers could be reduced if they devote less selling space to apparel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. over time, some of our customers that sell a variety of goods may devote less selling space to apparel products. if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any material reduction in sales resulting from reductions in apparel selling space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. current market returns have had a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension and other postemployment plans, which may require significant funding. as widely reported, financial markets in the united states, europe and asia have been experiencing extreme disruption since mid-2008. as a result of this disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, our pension plans and other postemployment plans had an increase in asset values of approximately 8% during 2009 and had a decrease of 32% during 2008. we are unable to predict the significant variations in asset values or the severity or duration of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. the continued downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. 21 table of contents our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. fruit of the loom, inc., a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its russell corporation and vanity fair intimates offerings. other competitors in our innerwear segment include limited brands, inc. victoria secret brand, jockey international, inc., warnaco group inc. and maidenform brands, inc. other competitors in our outerwear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, gildan activewear, inc. and gap inc. we also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our international segment. additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. our substantial indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our indebtedness includes the $750 million term loan and $400 million revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) pursuant to our senior secured credit facility that we entered into in 2006 and amended and restated on december 10, 2009 (as amended and restated, the 2009 senior secured credit facility ), our $500 million floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ), our $500 million 8.000% senior notes due 2016 (the 8% senior notes ) and the $250 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into on november 27, 2007 as amended in december 2009 (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes and the 8% senior notes contain restrictions 22 table of contents that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. if we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness which would adversely affect our business. covenants in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the recent deterioration of worldwide economic conditions could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. if we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities, which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. even if we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2010 and beyond. for information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity. if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. the lenders under the 2009 senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the 2009 senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. our indebtedness restricts our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. the restrictions contained in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and in the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes and the 8% senior notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. if we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. 23 table of contents to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could increase our income tax expense. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, our income tax expense has been, and will continue to be, impacted by our strategic initiative to make substantial capital investments outside the united states. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in our consolidated statement of income. under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. the excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. the goodwill is then assigned to a business unit ( reporting unit ), are considering whether the acquired business will be operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an existing business unit. as of january 2, 2010, we had approximately $136 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles and $322 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. our trademarks are subject to amortization while goodwill is not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. the combined amounts represent 14% of our total assets. goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually. no impairment was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2009. the impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on projected revenues and cash flows that will be derived from a reporting unit. intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. the fair value of a reporting unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global recession or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. we have not had any impairment charges in the last three years. however, changes in the future outlook of a reporting unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. 24 table of contents our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of january 2, 2010, we had approximately $492 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet which represents 15% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. this process involves the consolidation or possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms, and has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. if we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. the collection of data and processing of transactions through our direct to consumer operations require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. this type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. if some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our products. we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous 25 table of contents substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. while we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 26 table of contents we had approximately 47,400 employees worldwide as of january 2, 2010, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 47,400 employees worldwide as of january 2, 2010. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 39,600 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. 27 table of contents we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. in february 2006, sara lee sold its european branded apparel business to sun capital. in connection with the sale, sun capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancelation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 28 table of contents if the irs determines that our spin off from sara lee does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be 29 table of contents made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, european euro, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at january 2, 2010, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $7 million. interest rates our debt under the 2009 senior secured credit facility, floating rate senior notes and accounts receivable securitization facility bear interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we are required under the 2009 senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. to comply with this requirement, in the first quarter of 2010 we entered into a hedging arrangement whereby we capped the libor interest rate component on $490.7 million of the floating rate debt under the floating rate senior notes at 4.262%, as a result of which approximately 52% of our total debt outstanding at january 2, 2010 is now at a fixed rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of january 2, 2010 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $3.5 million. we may also execute interest rate cash flow hedges in the form of caps and swaps in the future in order to mitigate our exposure to variability in cash flows for the future interest payments on a designated portion of borrowings. commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. while we attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through employing a dollar cost averaging strategy by entering into hedging contracts from time to time, our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. the cotton prices reflected in our results were 55 cents per pound in 2009. we expect the cost of cotton included in our results to average 68 cents per pound for the full year of 2010. the ultimate effect of these pricing levels on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw 85 table of contents materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $3 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain. a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in asia, central america, the caribbean basin and mexico and we are continuing to add new manufacturing capacity in various locations. potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; operational disruptions; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. in addition, as we have restructured our supply chain over the past four years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities, such an event at a particular facility could have a larger impact on us. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 table of contents significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2011 and beyond. we are seeing a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages. rising demand for cotton resulting from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in u.s. inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton caused cotton prices to surge upward during 2010 and early 2011. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. although we have sold our yarn operations and nearly 40% of our business, such as bras, sheer hosiery and portions of our activewear categories, is not cotton-based, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. during 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton that is reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 10% primarily as a result of the cost of inflation. costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. after taking into consideration the cotton costs currently in our finished goods inventory and cotton prices we have locked in through october, we expect an average for cotton of at least $1.00 per pound in 2011 for purchases of cotton used in goods manufactured by us, which would have a negative impact ranging from $100 to $125 million when compared to 2010. the first and second quarters of 2011 should reflect an average cost of 83 cents per pound, the third quarter of 2011 should reflect an average cost of 89 cents per pound and the fourth quarter is not locked in at this time. these estimates do not include the cotton impact on the cost of sourced goods. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $4 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced from third parties. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, oil-related commodity prices and the costs of other raw materials used in our products, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. for example, we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $5 million, at current levels of usage. in response to the cost increases described above, particularly for cotton, energy and labor, we expect to take price increases as warranted by cost inflation, including multiple increases already put in place through late summer of 2011. the timing and frequency of price increases will vary by product category, channel of trade, and country, with some increases as frequently as quarterly. the magnitude of price increases will also vary by product category. if, however, we incur increased costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to recoup through price increases or improved efficiencies, or if consumer spending declines, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 37% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party 18 table of contents suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. we continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories, and we are continuing to implement strategies such as supplier-managed inventory. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. as a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, consumers uncertainty about financial conditions, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside our control. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations, and the inability of retailers to overcome these difficulties may increase due to worldwide economic conditions. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in a customer financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk 19 table of contents relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer. our customers purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our product costs may also increase, and these increases may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. these consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our price increases that become effective from time to time. if any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. for example, several customers filed for bankruptcy in the last few years. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. we may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. we have restructured our supply chain over the past four years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the western hemisphere and asia. we consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. with our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we are focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership arrangements. if we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. we distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third-party logistics providers. these facilities include a combination of owned, leased and contracted distribution centers. we have reduced the number of distribution centers from the 48 that we maintained at the time we became an independent public company to 31 as of january 1, 2011. we consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network, including relocating distribution capacity to our west coast distribution facility in california in order to expand capacity for goods we source from asia. in 2009, we began shipping products from this new 1.3 million square foot distribution center in perris, california. because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could also be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. in addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. if we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2010, our top ten customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 26% and 17% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart and target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. sales to our customers could be reduced if they devote less selling space to apparel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. over time, some of our customers that sell a variety of goods may devote less selling space to apparel products. if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any material reduction in sales resulting from reductions in apparel selling space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. 21 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. fruit of the loom, inc., a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its russell corporation and vanity fair intimates offerings. other competitors in our innerwear segment include limited brands, inc. victoria secret brand, jockey international, inc., warnaco group inc. and maidenform brands, inc. other competitors in our outerwear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, gildan activewear, inc. and gap inc. we also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our international segment. additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of brand recognition, price, quality, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. this process involves the consolidation or possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms, and has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. 22 table of contents if we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. the collection of data and processing of transactions through our direct to consumer operations require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. this type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. if some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our products. we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. our substantial indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) under our senior secured credit facility that we entered into in 2006 and amended and restated in december 2009 (as amended and restated, the 2009 senior secured credit facility ), our $500 million floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ), our $500 million 8.000% senior notes due 2016 (the 8% senior notes ), our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and the $150 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into in november 2007 (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes, the 8% senior notes and the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. if we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness which would adversely affect our business. covenants in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. economic conditions could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. if we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities, which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. even if we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2011 and beyond. for information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity. 23 table of contents if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. the lenders under the 2009 senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the 2009 senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. our indebtedness restricts our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. the restrictions contained in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and in the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes, the 8% senior notes and the 6.375% senior notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. if we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension and other postemployment plans, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans and other postemployment plans, which had increases in values of approximately 4% and 8% during 2010 and 2009, respectively, are invested in domestic and international equity and bond markets. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in our consolidated statement of income. under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. the excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. the goodwill is then assigned to a business unit ( reporting unit ), after considering whether the acquired business will be operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an existing business unit. as of january 1, 2011, we had approximately $179 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles and 24 table of contents $430 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. our trademarks are subject to amortization while goodwill is not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. the combined amounts represent 16% of our total assets. goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually. no impairment was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2010. the impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on projected revenues and cash flows that will be derived from a reporting unit. intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. the fair value of a reporting unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. we have not had any impairment charges in the last three years. however, changes in the future outlook of a reporting unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could increase our income tax expense. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the united states may result in capital investments outside the united states that impact our income tax expense. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of january 1, 2011, we had approximately $469 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 12% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 25 table of contents compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. while we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which or from they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 26 table of contents we had approximately 55,500 employees worldwide as of january 1, 2011, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 55,500 employees worldwide as of january 1, 2011. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 47,100 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. 27 table of contents we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. sun capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 28 table of contents if the irs determines that our spin off from sara lee does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. 29 table of contents our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, european euro, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at january 1, 2011, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $13 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, floating rate senior notes and accounts receivable securitization facility bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we were required under the 2009 senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. to comply with this requirement, in the first quarter of 2010 we entered into a hedging arrangement whereby we capped the libor interest rate component on $490.7 million of the floating rate debt under the floating rate senior notes at 4.262%. in addition, in november 2010, we completed a $1.0 billion senior notes offering and debt refinancing that strengthened and added flexibility to our capital structure by fixing a significant percentage of our debt at favorable interest rates at longer maturities. as a result, approximately 96% of our total debt outstanding at january 1, 2011 is now at a fixed or capped rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of january 1, 2011 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $2 million. we may also execute interest rate cash flow hedges in the form of caps and swaps in the future in order to mitigate our exposure to variability in cash flows for the future interest payments on a designated portion of borrowings. commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. during 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has 81 table of contents historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 10% primarily as a result of cost inflation. the cotton prices reflected in our results were 69 cents per pound in 2010 and 55 cents per pound in 2009. costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. for example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $4 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced from third parties. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $5 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors 14 risk factors risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. risks related to our business a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations are located in higher-cost locations, placing us at a product cost disadvantage to our competitors who have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations in lower-cost, offshore locations. though there has been a general industrywide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as central america, the caribbean basin and asia, a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations are still located in higher-cost locations, such as the united states. in addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than us, placing us at a cost disadvantage. our competitors are able to exert pricing pressure on us by using their manufacturing cost savings to reduce prices of their products, while maintaining higher margins than us. to remain competitive, we must, among other things, react to these pricing pressures by lowering our prices from time to time. we will continue to experience pricing pressure and remain at a cost disadvantage to our competitors unless we are able to successfully migrate a greater portion of our textile manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations. however, we cannot guarantee that our migration plans, as executed, will relieve these pricing pressures and our cost disadvantage. we are in the process of relocating a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations to overseas locations and this process involves significant costs and the risk of operational interruption. we currently are relocating and expect to continue to relocate a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations to locations in central america, the caribbean basin and asia. the process of relocating significant portions of our textile manufacturing and production operations has resulted in and will continue to result in significant costs. this process also may result in operational interruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the integration of our information technology systems is complex, and any delay or problem with this integration may cause serious disruption or harm to our business. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we are in the process of integrating currently unrelated information technology systems across our company which have resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. this process involves the replacement of eight independent systems environments running on different technology platforms with a unified enterprise system that will integrate all of our departments and functions onto common software that runs off a single database. we are subject to the risk that we will not able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. 14 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. these competitors include fruit of the loom, inc., warnaco group inc., vf corporation and maidenform brands, inc. in our innerwear business segment and gildan activewear, inc., russell corporation and fruit of the loom, inc. in our outerwear business segment. we also compete with many small companies across all of our business segments. additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. we also face intense competition from specialty stores that sell private label apparel not manufactured by us, such as victoria secret, old navy and the gap. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. excess inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. as a result, we are subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. for example, while our total inventory reserves were approximately $91 million in fiscal 2004 and $88 million in fiscal 2006, our total inventory reserves were approximately $116 million in fiscal 2005, due in part to lower demand for some of our products than forecasted. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, 15 table of contents our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide mark-down allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in fiscal 2006, our top ten customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top customer, wal-mart, accounted for 29% of our net sales. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top ten customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. for example, we have no agreements with wal-mart that obligate wal-mart to purchase our products. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. further consolidation among our customer base and continued growth of our existing customers could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced floor space for our products and other changes that could be harmful to our business. in recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. as a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products continues to decline and, as such, larger retailers now are able to exercise greater negotiating power when purchasing our products. continued consolidation in the retail industry could result in further price and other competition that may damage our business. additionally, as our customers grow larger, they increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, as our customers consolidate and grow larger they may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. our customers generally purchase our products on credit, and as a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our customers experience financial difficulties. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in our customers financial 16 table of contents position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are in, or our products are sourced from, overseas locations, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries from which we produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries; quantitative limits that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would harm our business. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of many of our products. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating and often volatile cost of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through short-term supply agreements and hedges, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that, excluding the impact of futures contracts, a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3.5 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the 17 table of contents price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the spin off, which subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we incurred substantial indebtedness of $2.6 billion in connection with the spin off as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. we are subject to significant financial and operating restrictions contained in the credit facilities governing our indebtedness. these restrictions affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: borrow funds; pay dividends or make other distributions; make investments; engage in transactions with affiliates; or create liens on our assets. in addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain financial ratios. if we fail to comply with the covenant restrictions contained in these credit facilities, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities. our substantial leverage also could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our substantial leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in general. as a result of our substantial indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funding for our operations and capital requirements. we paid $2.4 billion of the proceeds of the borrowings we incurred in connection with the spin off to sara lee, and as a result, those proceeds are not available for our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. in addition, the restrictions contained in our credit facilities restrict our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to: fund capital expenditures or acquisitions; meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments; fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates; obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets; or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments. we cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. it may be more expensive for us to raise funds through the issuance of additional debt than it was while we were part of sara lee. 18 table of contents if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. to service our substantial debt obligations we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could significantly increase our income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries we remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax rate. in order to service our substantial debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, we believe that our tax rate in future periods is likely to be higher, on average, than our historical income tax rates. if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under some of our credit facilities, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. in connection with our incurrence of indebtedness under each of our senior secured credit facility and our second lien credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our senior secured credit facility or our second lien credit facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. our supply chain relies on an extensive network of foreign operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have an extensive global supply chain in which a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in central america, the caribbean basin, mexico and asia. potential events that may disrupt our foreign operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tsunamis; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions to our foreign operations have an adverse impact on our supply chain that can result in production and sourcing interruptions, increases in our cost of sales and delayed deliveries of our products to our customers, all of which can have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 20% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in central america, the caribbean basin and asia. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. we have approximately 49,000 employees worldwide, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we have approximately 49,000 employees worldwide. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. we have approximately 35,000 employees outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in such countries could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our products, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to 20 table of contents the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. in addition, currency fluctuations can impact the price of cotton, the primary raw material we use in our business. we have significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities; if assumptions underlying our calculation of these liabilities prove incorrect, the amount of these liabilities could increase or we could be required to make contributions to these plans in excess of our current expectations, both of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. we assumed significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities of approximately $277 million for pension, postretirement and other retirement benefit qualified and nonqualified plans from sara lee in connection with the spin off. included in these unfunded liabilities are pension obligations that have not been reflected in our historical financial statements, because these obligations have historically been obligations of sara lee. the pension obligations we assumed are approximately $201 million more than the corresponding pension assets we acquired, and as a result our pension plans are underfunded. in addition, we could be required to make contributions to the pension plans in excess of our current expectations if financial conditions change or if the assumptions we have used to calculate our pension costs and obligations are inaccurate. a significant increase in our funding obligations could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. in february 2006, sara lee sold its european branded apparel business to an affiliate of sun capital. in connection with the sale, sun capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. we are also not permitted to distribute or sell certain apparel products, not including hanes products, in these nations until february 2007. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see our business intellectual property. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of, or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales and results of operations, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra and playtex brands by sun capital could result in bad press and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. since we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a 21 table of contents significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. risks related to our spin off from sara lee if the irs determines that the spin off does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. see we agreed with sara lee to certain restrictions in order to comply with u.s. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin off and we may not be able to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests below. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. 22 table of contents we have no operating history as an independent company upon which our performance can be evaluated and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. prior to the consummation of the spin off, we operated as part of sara lee. accordingly, we have virtually no experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the securities exchange act of 1934), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for many items such as equity compensation, income taxes, derivatives, intangible assets and pensions. our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets with complex supply chain operations. our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. our historical financial statements have been created from sara lee financial statements using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of sara lee. accordingly, the historical financial information we have included in this annual report on form 10-k is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. the historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and does not reflect many significant changes in our capital structure, funding and operations resulting from the spin off. while our historical results of operations include all costs of sara lee branded apparel business, our historical costs and expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent company. in addition, we have not made adjustments to our historical financial information to reflect changes, many of which are significant, that occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin off, including the substantial debt we incurred and pension liabilities we assumed in connection with the spin off. these changes include potentially increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and purchasing power. our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial information also may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. among other things, the rate may be materially impacted by: changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate; the tax characteristics of our earnings; the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the united states, which may increase our tax expense and taxes paid; the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business; and the expiration of the tax incentives for manufacturing operations in puerto rico, which have been repealed effective in fiscal 2007. we and sara lee will provide a number of services to each other pursuant to the master transition services agreement. when the master transition services agreement terminates, we will be required to replace sara lee services internally or through third parties on terms that may be less favorable to us. under the terms of a master transition services agreement that we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we and sara lee are providing to each other, for a fee, specified support services related to human resources and payroll functions, financial and accounting functions and information technology for periods of up to 12 months following the spin off (with some renewal terms available). when the master transition services agreement terminates, sara lee will no longer be obligated to provide any of 23 table of contents these services to us or pay us for the services we are providing sara lee, and we will be required to either enter into a new agreement with sara lee or another services provider or assume the responsibility for these functions ourselves. at such time, the economic terms of the new arrangement may be less favorable than the arrangement with sara lee under the master transition services agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we agreed with sara lee to certain restrictions in order to comply with u.s. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin off and we may not be able to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. current u.s. federal tax law that applies to spin offs generally creates a presumption that the spin off would be taxable to sara lee but not to its stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the spin off, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin off. u.s. treasury regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. in addition, the regulations provide certain safe harbors for acquisitions of our stock that are not considered to be part of a plan related to the spin off. there are other restrictions imposed on us under current u.s. federal tax law for spin offs and with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as continuing to own and manage our apparel business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. in the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with sara lee, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on sara lee as a result of the spin off. further, for the two-year period following the spin off, we agreed not to: (1) repurchase any of our stock except in certain circumstances permitted by the irs guidelines, (2) voluntarily dissolve or liquidate or engage in any merger (except certain cash acquisition mergers), consolidation, or other reorganizations except for certain mergers of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent not inconsistent with the tax-free status of the spin off, (3) sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of more than 50% of our assets, excluding any sales conducted in the ordinary course of business or (4) cease, transfer or dispose of all or any portion of our socks business. we are, however, permitted to take certain actions otherwise prohibited by the tax sharing agreement if we provide sara lee with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or private letter ruling from the irs, acceptable to sara lee, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin off. these restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets, or enter into business combination transactions. the terms of our spin off from sara lee, anti-takeover provisions of our charter and by-laws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. the terms of our spin off from sara lee could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. an acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with sara lee, we are required to indemnify sara lee for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. our charter and bylaws and maryland law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, and other terms of the classified or reclassified 24 table of contents shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between us and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our common stock or an affiliate of such person, are prohibited for a five-year period unless exempted by the statute. after this five-year period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by our board of directors. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. historically, sara lee has maintained risk management control systems on our behalf to monitor the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities risks and sara lee offsetting hedge position. sara lee risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, mexican peso, and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we intend to use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge our exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at the end of fiscal 2006, the potential change in fair value of these instruments, assuming a 10% change in the underlying currency price, was $6.4 million. at the end of fiscal 2006, the market value of the contracts was $1.2 million. in conjunction with the spin off, all foreign currency hedge contracts were terminated and, all gains and losses on these contracts were realized at the time of termination. interest rates our historic interest rate exposure primarily relates to intercompany loans or other amounts due to or from sara lee, cash balances (positive or negative) in foreign cash pool accounts which we have maintained with sara lee in the past, and cash held in short-term investment accounts outside of the united states. we have not historically used financial instruments to address our exposure to interest rate movements. various notes receivable and notes payable between us and sara lee are reflected on the combined and consolidated balance sheets. these notes receivable and payable were capitalized by the parties in connection with the spin off that occurred on september 5, 2006. in connection with the spin off, we incurred (i) $1.65 billion of indebtedness funded under the senior secured credit facility, which includes the additional $500.0 million revolving loan facility which was undrawn at the closing of the spin off and (ii) $450.0 million of indebtedness under the second lien credit facility that bears interest at a floating rate based on a published market rate plus the applicable margin from the credit agreements. we also incurred $500.0 million of indebtedness under the bridge loan facility that has a floating rate of interest and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness at the same or better rates upon maturity. we paid 55 table of contents $2.4 billion of the proceeds of this debt to sara lee. we are exposed to interest rate risk from the floating rate debt issuance and we are required to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt under our credit facilities. prior to any hedging activities, a 25-basis point movement in the interest rate charged on the floating rate debt that we incurred on september 5, 2006 would result in a change in interest expense of $6.5 million. commodities cotton is the primary raw material we use to manufacture many of our products. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase our raw materials at market prices. in fiscal 2006, we started to use commodity financial instruments to hedge the price of cotton, for which there is a high correlation between costs and the financial instrument. we generally do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge other raw material commodity prices. at july 1, 2006, the potential change in fair value of cotton commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, was $3.5 million.risk factors 14 risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. risks related to our business a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations are located in higher-cost locations, placing us at a product cost disadvantage to our competitors who have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations in lower-cost, offshore locations. though there has been a general industry-wide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as central america, the caribbean basin and asia, a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations are still located in higher-cost locations, such as the united states. in addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than us, placing us at a cost disadvantage. our competitors are able to exert pricing pressure on us by using their manufacturing cost savings to reduce prices of their products, while maintaining higher margins than us. to remain competitive, we must, among other things, react to these pricing pressures by lowering our prices from time to time. we will continue to experience pricing pressure and remain at a cost disadvantage to our competitors unless we are able to successfully migrate a greater portion of our textile manufacturing operations 14 table of contents to lower-cost locations. however, we cannot guarantee that our migration plans, as executed, will relieve these pricing pressures and our cost disadvantage. we are in the process of relocating a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations to overseas locations and this process involves significant costs and the risk of operational interruption. we currently are relocating and expect to continue to relocate a significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations to locations in central america, the caribbean basin and asia. the process of relocating significant portions of our textile manufacturing and production operations has resulted in and will continue to result in significant costs. as further plans are developed and approved by management and our board of directors, we expect to recognize additional restructuring costs to eliminate duplicative functions within the organization and transition a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity to lower-cost locations. as a result of these efforts, we expect to incur approximately $250 million in restructuring and related charges over the next three years of which approximately half is expected to be noncash. this process also may result in operational interruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the integration of our information technology systems is complex, and any delay or problem with this integration may cause serious disruption or harm to our business. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we are in the process of integrating currently unrelated information technology systems across our company which has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. this process involves the replacement of eight independent systems environments running on different technology platforms with a unified enterprise system that will integrate all of our departments and functions onto common software that runs off a single database. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. these competitors include berskhire hathaway inc. through its subsidiary fruit of the loom, inc., warnaco group inc., vf corporation (which in january 2007 agreed to sell its intimate apparel business to fruit of the loom, inc.) and maidenform brands, inc. in our innerwear business segment and gildan activewear, inc. and berkshire hathaway inc. through its subsidiaries russell corporation and fruit of the loom, inc. in our outerwear business segment. we also compete with many small companies across all of our business segments. additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. we also face intense competition from specialty stores that sell private label apparel not manufactured by us, such as victoria secret, old navy and the gap. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 15 table of contents if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. excess inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. as a result, we are subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. for example, while our total inventory reserves were approximately $99 million at december 30, 2006, $88 million at july 1, 2006 and $89 million at july 3, 2004, our total inventory reserves were approximately $116 million at july 2, 2005, due in part to lower demand for some of our products than forecasted. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. during the six months ended december 30, 2006, our top ten customers accounted for 62% of our net sales and our top customer, wal-mart, accounted for 28% of our net sales. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top ten customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 table of contents we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. for example, we have no agreements with wal-mart that obligate wal-mart to purchase our products. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. further consolidation among our customer base and continued growth of our existing customers could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced floor space for our products and other changes that could be harmful to our business. in recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. as a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products continues to decline and, as such, larger retailers now are able to exercise greater negotiating power when purchasing our products. continued consolidation in the retail industry could result in further price and other competition that may damage our business. additionally, as our customers grow larger, they increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, as our customers consolidate and grow larger they may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. our customers generally purchase our products on credit, and as a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our customers experience financial difficulties. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in our customers financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are in, or our products are sourced from, overseas locations, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries from which we produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations 17 table of contents currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries; quantitative limits that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of many of our products. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating and often volatile cost of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through short-term supply agreements and hedges, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that, excluding the impact of futures contracts, a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3.7 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the spin off, which subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we incurred substantial indebtedness of $2.6 billion in connection with our spin off from sara lee as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. in december 2006, we repaid $500 million of that indebtedness with the proceeds of an offering of $500 million of our floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ). we are subject to significant financial and operating restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the senior secured credit facility ) and the senior secured second lien credit facility we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the second lien credit facility and, together with the senior secured 18 table of contents credit facility, the credit facilities ) and the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes. these restrictions affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: borrow funds; pay dividends or make other distributions; make investments; engage in transactions with affiliates; or create liens on our assets. in addition, the credit facilities require us to maintain financial ratios. if we fail to comply with the covenant restrictions contained in the credit facilities, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities. our substantial leverage also could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our substantial leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in general. as a result of our substantial indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funding for our operations and capital requirements. we paid $2.4 billion of the proceeds of the borrowings we incurred in connection with the spin off to sara lee and, as a result, those proceeds are not available for our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. in addition, the restrictions contained in the credit facilities and in the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes restrict our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to: fund capital expenditures or acquisitions; meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments; fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates; obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets; or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments. we cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. it may be more expensive for us to raise funds through the issuance of additional debt than it was while we were part of sara lee. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. 19 table of contents to service our substantial debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could significantly increase our income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries we remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax rate. in order to service our substantial debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, we believe that our tax rate in future periods is likely to be higher, on average, than our historical income tax rates in periods prior to the spin off on september 5, 2006. if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under some of the credit facilities, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. in connection with our incurrence of indebtedness under the credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the second lien credit facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. our supply chain relies on an extensive network of foreign operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have an extensive global supply chain in which a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in central america, the caribbean basin, mexico and asia. potential events that may disrupt our foreign operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tsunamis; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions to our foreign operations have an adverse impact on our supply chain that can result in production and sourcing interruptions, increases in our cost of sales and delayed deliveries of our products to our customers, all of which can have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 23% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from 20 table of contents our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in central america, the caribbean basin and asia. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. we have approximately 49,000 employees worldwide, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we have approximately 49,000 employees worldwide. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. we have approximately 35,700 employees outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our products, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our combined and consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, currency fluctuations can impact the price of cotton, the primary raw material we use in our business. 21 table of contents we have significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities; if assumptions underlying our calculation of these liabilities prove incorrect, the amount of these liabilities could increase or we could be required to make contributions to these plans in excess of our current expectations, both of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. we assumed significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities of $299 million as of september 5, 2006 for pension, postretirement and other retirement benefit qualified and nonqualified plans from sara lee in connection with the spin off. included in these unfunded liabilities are pension obligations that have not been reflected in our historical financial statements for periods prior to the six months ended december 30, 2006 because these obligations have historically been obligations of sara lee. the pension obligations we assumed were $225 million more than the corresponding pension assets we acquired, and as a result our pension plans are underfunded. as a result of provisions of the pension protection act of 2006, we may be required, commencing with plan years beginning after 2007, to make larger contributions to our pension plans than sara lee made with respect to these plans in past years. in addition, we could be required to make contributions to the pension plans in excess of our current expectations if financial conditions change or if the assumptions we have used to calculate our pension costs and obligations prove to be inaccurate. a significant increase in our funding obligations could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. in february 2006, sara lee sold its european branded apparel business to sun capital. in connection with the sale, sun capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. we also are not permitted to distribute or sell certain apparel products, not including hanes products, in these nations until february 2007. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales and results of operations, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra and playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a 22 table of contents significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. risks related to our spin off from sara lee if the irs determines that the spin off does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. for more information about the tax sharing agreement, see certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence below. 23 table of contents we have virtually no operating history as an independent company upon which our performance can be evaluated and, accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. prior to the consummation of the spin off, we operated as part of sara lee. accordingly, we have virtually no experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act ), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for many items such as equity compensation, income taxes, derivatives, intangible assets and pensions. our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets with complex supply chain operations. our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. much of our historical financial statements have been created from sara lee financial statements using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of sara lee. for example, we operated as part of sara lee for all periods discussed in this form 10-k, other than the last four months of the six months ended december 30, 2006. accordingly, the historical financial information we have included in this form 10-k is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during all of the periods presented. much of the historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and, for periods prior to the six months ended december 30, 2006, does not reflect many significant changes in our capital structure, funding and operations resulting from the spin off. while our historical results of operations include all costs of sara lee branded apparel business, our historical costs and expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent company. in addition, we have not made adjustments to our historical financial information to reflect changes, many of which are significant, that occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin off, including the substantial debt we incurred and pension liabilities we assumed in connection with the spin off. these changes include potentially increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and purchasing power. our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial information for periods prior to the six months ended december 30, 2006 also may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. among other things, the rate may be materially impacted by: changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate; the tax characteristics of our earnings; the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the united states, which may increase our tax expense and taxes paid; the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business; and the expiration of the tax incentives for manufacturing operations in puerto rico, which are no longer in effect. 24 table of contents we and sara lee provide a number of services to each other pursuant to a master transition services agreement. when this agreement terminates, we will be required to replace sara lee services internally or through third parties on terms that may be less favorable to us. under the terms of a master transition services agreement that we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we and sara lee are providing to each other, for a fee, specified support services related to human resources and payroll functions, financial and accounting functions and information technology for periods of up to 12 months following the spin off (with some renewal terms available). when the master transition services agreement terminates, sara lee will no longer be obligated to provide any of these services to us or pay us for the services we are providing sara lee, and we will be required to either enter into a new agreement with sara lee or another services provider or assume the responsibility for these functions ourselves. at such time, the economic terms of the new arrangement may be less favorable than the arrangement with sara lee under the master transition services agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. for more information about the master transition services agreement, see certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence below. we agreed with sara lee to certain restrictions in order to comply with u.s. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin off and we may not be able to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. current u.s. federal tax law that applies to spin offs generally creates a presumption that the spin off would be taxable to sara lee but not to its stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the spin off, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin off. u.s. treasury regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. in addition, the regulations provide certain safe harbors for acquisitions of our stock that are not considered to be part of a plan related to the spin off. there are other restrictions imposed on us under current u.s. federal tax law for spin offs and with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as continuing to own and manage our apparel business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. in our tax sharing agreement with sara lee, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on sara lee as a result of the spin off. further, for the two-year period following the spin off, we agreed, among other things, not to: (1) sell or otherwise issue equity securities or repurchase any of our stock except in certain circumstances permitted by the irs guidelines; (2) voluntarily dissolve or liquidate or engage in any merger (except certain cash acquisition mergers), consolidation, or other reorganizations except for certain mergers of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent not inconsistent with the tax-free status of the spin off; (3) sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of more than 50% of our assets, excluding any sales conducted in the ordinary course of business; or (4) cease, transfer or dispose of all or any portion of our socks business. we are, however, permitted to take certain actions otherwise prohibited by the tax sharing agreement if we provide sara lee with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or private letter ruling from the irs, acceptable to sara lee, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin off. these restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets or enter into business combination transactions. for more information about the tax sharing agreement, see certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence below. 25 table of contents the terms of our spin off from sara lee, anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. the terms of our spin off from sara lee could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. an acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the internal revenue code. under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with sara lee, we are required to indemnify sara lee for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. our charter and bylaws and maryland law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. prior to the spin off on september 5, 2006, sara lee maintained risk management control systems on our behalf to monitor the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities risks and sara lee offsetting hedge position. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. in conjunction with the spin off, all foreign currency hedge contracts were terminated and all gains and losses on these contracts were realized at the time of termination. interest rates prior to the spin off on september 5, 2006, our interest rate exposure primarily related to intercompany loans or other amounts due to or from sara lee, cash balances (positive or negative) in foreign cash pool accounts which we have maintained with sara lee in the past and cash held in short-term investment accounts outside of the united states. we have not historically used financial instruments to address our exposure to interest rate movements. various notes receivable and notes payable between us and sara lee are reflected on the combined and consolidated balance sheets. these notes receivable and payable were capitalized by the parties in connection with the spin off that occurred on september 5, 2006. in connection with the spin off, we incurred (i) $1.65 billion of indebtedness funded under the senior secured credit facility, which includes the additional 68 table of contents $500.0 million revolving loan facility which was undrawn at the closing of the spin off and (ii) $450.0 million of indebtedness under the second lien credit facility. we also incurred $500.0 million of indebtedness under the bridge loan facility, which we repaid with the proceeds of the offering of the floating rate senior notes. each of these credit facilities bears interests as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources credit facilities and notes payable, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness at the same or better rates upon maturity. we paid $2.4 billion of the proceeds of this debt to sara lee and used the remainder to pay debt issuance costs and for working capital. we are required under the senior secured credit facility and the second lien credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. during the six months ended december 30, 2006, we entered into various hedging arrangements whereby we capped the interest payable on $1 billion of our floating rate debt at 5.75%. we also entered into interest rate swaps tied to the 3-month libor rate whereby we fixed the interest payable on an aggregate of $500 million of our floating rate debt at a blended rate of approximately 5.16%. approximately 60% of our total debt outstanding at december 30, 2006 is at a fixed or capped rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 30, 2006 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $5 million. commodities cotton is the primary raw material we use to manufacture many of our products. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase our raw materials at market prices. in fiscal 2006, we started to use commodity financial instruments to hedge the price of cotton, for which there is a high correlation between costs and the financial instrument. we generally do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge other raw material commodity prices. at december 30, 2006, the potential change in fair value of cotton commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, was $4.2 million.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. 16 table of contents risks related to our business we are in the process of relocating a significant portion of our manufacturing operations and this process involves significant costs and the risk of operational interruption. in furtherance of our efforts to execute our consolidation and globalization strategy, we are relocating portions of our manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations such as central america, the caribbean basin and asia. the process of relocating significant portions of our manufacturing and production operations has resulted in and will continue to result in significant costs and savings. as further plans are developed and approved by management and in some cases our board of directors, we expect to recognize additional restructuring costs to eliminate duplicative functions within the organization and transition a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity to lower-cost locations. as a result of these efforts, we expect to incur approximately $250 million in restructuring and related charges over the three year period following the spin off from sara lee, approximately half of which is expected to be noncash. this process also may result in operational interruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our supply chain relies on an extensive network of foreign operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain in which a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in central america, the caribbean basin, mexico and asia. potential events that may disrupt our foreign operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tsunamis; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our foreign supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production in offshore facilities, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of the products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the integration of our information technology systems is complex, and delays or problems with this integration may cause serious disruption or harm to our business. as we continue to consolidate our operations, we are in the process of integrating currently unrelated information technology systems across our company, which has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. this process involves the replacement of eight independent systems environments running on different technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many 17 table of contents key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. these competitors include berskhire hathaway inc. through its subsidiary fruit of the loom, inc., warnaco group inc., maidenform brands, inc. and gildan activewear, inc. in our innerwear business segment and gildan activewear, inc., berkshire hathaway inc. through its subsidiaries russell corporation and fruit of the loom, inc., nike, inc., adidas ag through its adidas and reebok brands and under armour inc. in our outerwear business segment. we also compete with many small companies across all of our business segments. additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. we also face intense competition from specialty stores that sell private label apparel not manufactured by us, such as victoria secret, old navy and the gap. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. as a result, we are subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 18 table of contents sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. during the year ended december 29, 2007, our top ten customers accounted for 62% of our net sales and our top customer, wal-mart, accounted for 27% of our net sales. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. for example, we have no agreements with wal-mart that obligate wal-mart to purchase our products. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. continued growth of our existing customers could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced floor space for our products and other changes that could be harmful to our business. the retailers to which we sell our products have grown larger, partly due to retailer consolidation, and, as such, now are able to exercise greater negotiating power when purchasing our products. additionally, as our customers grow larger, they increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, as our customers grow larger they may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. 19 table of contents our customers generally purchase our products on credit, and as a result, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected if our customers experience financial difficulties. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in our customers financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are in or our products are sourced from, overseas locations, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries from which we produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries; quantitative limits that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of many of our products. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating and often volatile cost of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and 20 table of contents foam. rising fuel, energy and utility costs may have a significant impact on our manufacturing costs. these costs may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through short-term supply agreements and hedges, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that, excluding the impact of futures contracts, a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3.3 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and 21% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our products, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. in addition, currency fluctuations can impact the price of cotton, the primary raw material we use in our business. we had approximately 47,600 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2007, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 47,600 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2007. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 36,100 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those 21 table of contents operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in central america, the caribbean basin and asia. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. in february 2006, sara lee sold its european branded apparel business to sun capital. in connection with the sale, sun capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and 22 table of contents distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. our indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our indebtedness includes the $2.1 billion senior secured credit facility that we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the senior secured credit facility ), the $450 million senior secured second lien credit facility that we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the second lien credit facility and, together with the senior secured credit facility, the credit facilities ), our $500 million floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ) and the $250 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into on november 27, 2007 (the receivables facility ). the senior secured credit facility, second lien credit facility and the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. in addition, the credit facilities and the receivables facility require us to maintain financial ratios. if we fail to comply with the covenant restrictions contained in these agreements, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities. our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in general. our indebtedness restricts our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. if we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. the restrictions contained in the credit facilities and in the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes restrict our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. 23 table of contents if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. in connection with our incurrence of indebtedness under the credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the receivables facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility, the second lien credit facility or the receivables facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could increase our income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries we remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax rate. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, our tax rate has been, and we believe in future periods is likely to continue to be, higher, on average, than our historical income tax rates in periods prior to our spin off from sara lee. risks related to our status as a newly independent company we have a limited operating history as an independent company upon which our performance can be evaluated and, accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. prior to the consummation of the spin off, we operated as part of sara lee. accordingly, we have limited experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act ), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for many items such as equity compensation, income taxes, derivatives, intangible assets and pensions. our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets with complex supply chain operations. our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. our historical financial statements for periods prior to the spin off were created from sara lee financial statements using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of sara lee. accordingly, historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during those periods. our historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and, for periods prior to the spin off, does not reflect many significant changes in our capital structure, funding and operations resulting from the spin off. while our results of operations for periods prior to the spin off include all costs of sara lee branded apparel business, these costs and expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent company. in addition, we have not made adjustments to our 24 table of contents historical financial information to reflect changes, many of which are significant, that occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin off, including the substantial debt we incurred and pension liabilities we assumed in connection with the spin off. these changes include potentially increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and purchasing power. our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off has not been and may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. among other things, the rate may be materially impacted by: changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate; the tax characteristics of our earnings; the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the united states, which may increase our tax expense and taxes paid; and the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business. if the irs determines that our spin off from sara lee does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the 25 table of contents spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. we agreed with sara lee to certain restrictions in order to comply with u.s. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin off and we may not be able to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. current u.s. federal tax law that applies to spin offs generally creates a presumption that the spin off would be taxable to sara lee but not to its stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the spin off, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin off. u.s. treasury regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. in addition, the regulations provide certain safe harbors for acquisitions of our stock that are not considered to be part of a plan related to the spin off. there are other restrictions imposed on us under current u.s. federal tax law for spin offs and with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as continuing to own and manage our apparel business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. in our tax sharing agreement with sara lee, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on sara lee as a result of the spin off. further, for the two-year period following the spin off, we agreed, among other things, not to: (1) sell or otherwise issue equity securities or repurchase any of our stock except in certain circumstances permitted by the irs guidelines; (2) voluntarily dissolve or liquidate or engage in any merger (except certain cash acquisition mergers), consolidation, or other reorganizations except for certain mergers of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent not inconsistent with the tax-free status of the spin off; (3) sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of more than 50% of our assets, excluding any sales conducted in the ordinary course of business; or (4) cease, transfer or dispose of all or any portion of our socks business. we are, however, permitted to take certain actions otherwise prohibited by the tax sharing agreement if we provide sara lee with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or private letter ruling from the irs, acceptable to sara lee, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin off. these restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets or enter into business combination transactions. the terms of our spin off from sara lee, anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. the terms of our spin off from sara lee could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. an acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the internal revenue code. under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with sara lee, we are required to indemnify sara lee for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. our charter and bylaws and maryland law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium 26 table of contents price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 29, 2007, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $4.0 million. interest rates we are required under the senior secured credit facility and the second lien credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. at december 29, 2007, we have outstanding hedging arrangements whereby we capped the interest rate on $950 million of our floating rate debt at 5.75%. we also entered into interest rate swaps tied to the 3-month and 6-month libor rates whereby we fixed the interest rate on an aggregate of $600 million of our floating rate debt at a blended rate of approximately 5.04%. approximately 67% of our total debt outstanding at december 29, 2007 is at a fixed or capped rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 29, 2007 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $4.3 million. commodities cotton is the primary raw material we use to manufacture many of our products. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase our raw materials at market prices. in the year ended july 1, 2006, we started to use commodity financial instruments to hedge the price of cotton, for which there is a high correlation between costs and the financial instrument. we generally do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge other raw material commodity prices. at december 29, 2007, the potential change in fair value of cotton commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, was $1.2 million.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. we are continuing to execute our consolidation and globalization strategy and this process involves significant costs and the risk of operational interruption. the implementation of our consolidation and globalization strategy, which is designed to improve operating efficiencies and lower costs, has resulted and is likely to continue to result in significant costs in the short-term and generate savings as well as higher inventory levels for the next 12 to 15 months. as further plans are developed and approved, we expect to recognize additional restructuring costs as we eliminate duplicative functions within the organization and transition a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity to lower-cost locations. as a result of this strategy, we expect to incur approximately $250 million in restructuring and related charges over the three year period following the spin off from sara lee on september 5, 2006, of which approximately half is expected to be noncash. as of january 3, 2009, we have recognized approximately $209 million and announced approximately $219 million in restructuring and related charges related to this strategy since september 5, 2006. this process may also result in operational interruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our supply chain relies on an extensive network of foreign operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain in which a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in asia, central america, the caribbean basin and mexico and we are continuing to add new manufacturing capacity in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. potential events that may disrupt our foreign operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our foreign supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production in facilities outside the united states, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of the products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these 16 table of contents events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. worldwide economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the united states, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by our customers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. our customers purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. for example, we experienced a spike in oil related commodity prices during the summer of 2008. increases in our product costs may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. these consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our domestic price increases that become effective from time to time. if any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. for example, one of our customers, mervyn s, a regional retailer in california and the southwest that originally filed for reorganization under chapter 11 in july 2008, announced in october 2008 its intention to wind down its business and conduct going-out-of-business sales at remaining store locations. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. our customers generally purchase our products on credit, and as a result, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected if our customers experience financial difficulties. during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations, and the inability of retailers to overcome these difficulties may increase due to the recent deterioration of worldwide economic conditions. this could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. adverse changes in a customer financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our indebtedness includes the $2.1 billion senior secured credit facility that we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the senior secured credit facility ), the $450 million senior secured second lien credit facility that we entered into on september 5, 2006 (the second lien credit facility and, together with the senior secured credit facility, the credit facilities ), our $500 million floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ) and the $250 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into on november 27, 2007 (the receivables facility ). the senior secured credit facility, second lien credit 17 table of contents facility and the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. if we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness which would adversely affect our business. covenants in the credit facilities and the receivables facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the recent deterioration of worldwide economic conditions could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. if we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities, which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. even if we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2009 and beyond. in addition, these options could require modification of our interest rate derivative portfolio, which could require us to make a cash payment in the event of terminating a derivative instrument or impact the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging instruments and require us to take non-cash charges. for information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity. if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. in connection with our incurrence of indebtedness under the credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the receivables facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facilities or the receivables facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. our indebtedness restricts our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. the restrictions contained in the credit facilities and in the indenture governing the floating rate senior notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. if we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. 18 table of contents to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could increase our income tax expense. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, our income tax expense has been, and will continue to be, impacted by our strategic initiative to make substantial capital investments outside the united states. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of many of our products. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. while we do enter into short-term supply agreements and hedges from time to time in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices, although cotton represents only 8% of our cost of sales. cotton prices were 65 cents per pound for the year ended january 3, 2009 and 56 cents per pound for the year ended december 29, 2007. the price of cotton currently in our inventory is in the mid 60 cents per pound range which is the price that will impact our operating results in the first half of 2009. the prices for the most recent cotton crop, which will impact our operating results in the second half of 2009, have decreased to the low 50 cents per pound range. we are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through short-term supply agreements and hedges, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. for example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by $3 million, at current levels of production. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, during the summer of 2008 we experienced a spike in oil related commodity prices and other raw materials used in our products, such as dyes and chemicals, and increases in other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs. these costs may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. current market returns have had a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension and other postemployment plans, which may require significant funding. as widely reported, financial markets in the united states, europe and asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months. as a result of this disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, our pension plans and other postemployment plans had a decrease in asset values of approximately 32% during the year ended january 3, 2009. we are unable to predict the severity or the duration of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. we are not required to make any mandatory contributions to our plans in 2009. nevertheless, the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. the continued downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. 19 table of contents the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 34% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, reproduction problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. we continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to execute our consolidation and globalization strategy. as a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. during the year ended january 3, 2009, our top ten customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 27% and 16% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially wal-mart and target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 20 table of contents we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. for example, we have no agreements with wal-mart that obligate wal-mart to purchase our products. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. these competitors include berskhire hathaway inc. through its subsidiary fruit of the loom, inc., warnaco group inc., maidenform brands, inc. and gildan activewear, inc. in our innerwear business segment and gildan activewear, inc., berkshire hathaway inc. through its subsidiaries russell corporation and fruit of the loom, inc., nike, inc., adidas ag through its adidas and reebok brands and under armour inc. in our outerwear business segment. we also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our international segment. additionally, department stores, specialty stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. these customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. we also face intense competition from specialty stores that sell private label apparel not manufactured by us, such as victoria secret, old navy and the gap. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. 21 table of contents we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. in february 2006, sara lee sold its european branded apparel business to sun capital. in connection with the sale, sun capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. we distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third-party logistics providers. these facilities include a combination of owned, leased and contracted distribution centers. we are in the process of consolidating our distribution network to fewer larger facilities, including the recent opening of a 1.3 million square foot facility in perris, california. this consolidation of our distribution network will involve significant change, including movement of product during the transitional period, implementation of new warehouse management systems and technology, and opening of new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could also be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. in addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. if we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. this process involves the consolidation or possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms, and has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. if we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. the collection of data and processing of transactions through our direct-to-consumer internet and catalog operations require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. this type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. recently, data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. if some of the current 22 table of contents proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our products. we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. while we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states, we are subject to international trade regulations. the international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. these regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 23 table of contents due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, including cotton, our primary raw material, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we had approximately 45,200 employees worldwide as of january 3, 2009, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 45,200 employees worldwide as of january 3, 2009. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 35,000 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. 24 table of contents the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our historical financial information and operations for periods prior to the spin off are not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. our historical financial statements for periods prior to the spin off on september 5, 2006 were created from sara lee financial statements using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of sara lee. accordingly, historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand alone entity during those periods. our historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off is also not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and, for periods prior to the spin off, does not reflect many significant changes in our capital structure, funding and operations resulting from the spin off. while our results of operations for periods prior to the spin off include all costs of sara lee branded apparel business, these costs and expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been incurred by us had we been an independent company during those periods. in addition, we have not made adjustments to our historical financial information to reflect changes, many of which are significant, that occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin off, including the substantial debt we 25 table of contents incurred and pension liabilities we assumed in connection with the spin off. in addition, our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial information for periods prior to the spin off has not been and may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. if the irs determines that our spin off from sara lee does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. 26 table of contents our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquiror, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, european euro, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at january 3, 2009, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $4.5 million. 87 table of contents interest rates we are required under the senior secured credit facility and the second lien credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. at january 3, 2009, we have outstanding hedging arrangements whereby we capped the libor interest rate component on $400 million of our floating rate debt at 3.50%. we also entered into interest rate swaps tied to the 3-month and 6-month libor rates whereby we fixed the libor interest rate component on an aggregate of $1.4 billion of our floating rate debt at a blended rate of approximately 4.16%. approximately 82% of our total debt outstanding at january 3, 2009 is at a fixed or capped rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of january 3, 2009 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $2.0 million. due to the recent significant changes in the credit markets, the fair values of our interest rate hedging instruments have decreased approximately $66.7 million during the year ended january 3, 2009. this activity has been deferred into accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheet until the hedged transactions impact our earnings. commodities cotton, which represents 8% of our cost of sales, is the primary raw material we use to manufacture many of our products. while we attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton through short-term supply agreements and hedges from time to time, our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. the price of cotton currently in our inventory is in the mid 60 cents per pound range which is the price that will impact our operating results in the first half of 2009. the prices for the most recent cotton crop, which will impact our operating results in the second half of 2009, have decreased to the low 50 cents per pound range. the ultimate effect of these pricing levels on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase our raw materials at market prices. we use commodity financial instruments to hedge the price of cotton, for which there is a high correlation between costs and the financial instrument. we generally do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge other raw material commodity prices. at january 3, 2009, we did not have any cotton commodity derivatives outstanding.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. 16 table of contents economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to hanesbrands, or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2012 and beyond. we have seen a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, which impacted our results in 2011 and will continue to do so through at least the first half of 2012. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. in addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if consumer spending declines or if our competitors unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. our customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. in our outerwear segment, we also face competition in the wholesale casualwear (imagewear) category from other manufacturers with respect to the sale of lower-margin products to wholesalers and third party embellishers, whose purchasing decisions are primarily driven by price, rather than brand name recognition. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, 17 table of contents operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain. a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in asia, central america, the caribbean basin and mexico. potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; operational disruptions; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 34% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. 18 table of contents our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. we continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories, and we are continuing to implement strategies such as supplier-managed inventory. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. as a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. there are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. we have restructured our supply chain over the past five years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the western hemisphere and asia. we consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. with our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we continue to be focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership arrangements. if we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. we distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third party logistics providers. because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as 19 table of contents hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. in addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. if we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2011, our top 10 customers accounted for 62% of our net sales and our top customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 25% and 16% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. in addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top 10 customers, especially wal-mart and target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. sales to our customers could be reduced if they devote less selling space to apparel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. over time, some of our customers that sell a variety of goods may devote less selling space to apparel products. if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any material reduction in sales resulting from reductions in apparel selling space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we generally do not sell our products under contracts, and as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. in the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. 20 table of contents our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. as part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. this process involves the consolidation or possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. if we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. the collection of data and processing of transactions through our direct to consumer operations require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. this type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. 21 table of contents the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. sun capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. 22 table of contents our substantial indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) under our senior secured credit facility that we entered into in 2006 and amended and restated in december 2009 and further amended in february 2011 (the 2009 senior secured credit facility ), our $500 million floating rate senior notes due 2014 (the floating rate senior notes ), our $500 million 8.000% senior notes due 2016 (the 8% senior notes ), our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and the $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into in november 2007 (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes, the 8% senior notes and the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. if we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness which would adversely affect our business. covenants in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. economic conditions could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. if we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities, which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. even if we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2012 and beyond. for information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity. if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. the lenders under the 2009 senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the 2009 senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. 23 table of contents our indebtedness could restrict our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. the restrictions contained in the 2009 senior secured credit facility and in the indentures governing the floating rate senior notes, the 8% senior notes and the 6.375% senior notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. if we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. if we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. if we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately negative 1% and positive 12% during 2011 and 2010, respectively, are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 73% funded as of december 31, 2011. this underfunding resulted from the decline in market value of the plans investment portfolios resulting from the global financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007 and a reduction in the discount rate used to determine the present value of the plans benefit obligation. any additional downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $433 million of goodwill and $170 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 15% of our total assets. no impairment was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2011, and we have not had any impairment charges in the last three years. however, changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 24 table of contents to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states, which could increase our income tax expense. the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states may significantly impact our u.s. federal income tax expense. we pay u.s. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the united states and be taxable. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. consequently, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the united states may result in capital investments outside the united states that impact our income tax expense. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $549 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 14% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. while we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. international trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states, we are subject to international trade laws and regulations. the international trade laws and regulations to which we are subject or may become subject to include tariffs, safeguard, trade preferences, free trade agreements, quotas or other restrictions. these regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by international trade 25 table of contents regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. the countries in which our products are manufactured or into which or from they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products are manufactured; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or creation of other restrictions on imports. adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we had approximately 53,300 employees worldwide as of december 31, 2011, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 53,300 employees worldwide as of december 31, 2011. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 45,400 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. 26 table of contents we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if the irs determines that our spin off from sara lee does not qualify as a tax-free distribution or a tax-free reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. sara lee has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ), and as part of a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes to sara lee. although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code generally is binding on the irs, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. also, as part of the irs general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee is based upon representations by sara lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the irs that these conditions have been satisfied. any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. if the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, sara lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. sara lee stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair 27 table of contents market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a sara lee stockholder basis in its shares of sara lee common stock) for u.s. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a sara lee stockholder pro rata share of sara lee current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to sara lee with respect to the spin off). it is expected that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee stockholders and to sara lee would be substantial. pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with sara lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify sara lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of sara lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to sara lee and to sara lee stockholders under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by sara lee from the irs relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. our indemnification obligations to sara lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. we expect that the amount of any such taxes to sara lee would be substantial. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. 28 table of contents in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, european euro, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 31, 2011, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $9.8 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, floating rate senior notes and accounts receivable securitization facility bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we are required under the 2009 senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. we are in compliance with this provision as a result of our 8% senior notes and 6.375% senior notes which bear interest at fixed rates. approximately 76% of our total debt outstanding at december 31, 2011 is at a fixed rate. after giving effect to these arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 31, 2011 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $1.2 million. we may execute interest rate cash flow hedges in the form of caps and swaps in the future in order to mitigate our exposure to variability in cash flows for the future interest payments on a designated portion of borrowings. commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. during 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers, while decreases in cotton prices can result in inventory comprised of products made from higher-cost yarn and in our purchase of cotton at contractually fixed prices that are above the current market rate. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. when we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations 74 table of contents in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. the yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 12% primarily as a result of cost inflation. the cotton prices reflected in our results were $1.09 per pound in 2011 and 69 cents per pound in 2010. costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. for example, we estimate that an increase of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $4 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced by third parties. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, significant decreases in the price of cotton may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower gross margins, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $4 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to hanesbrands, or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2013 and beyond. we experienced a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, during 2011 and the first half of 2012, and we may experience similar increases in the future. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. in addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if consumer spending declines or if our competitors unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. in our outerwear segment, we also face competition in the branded printwear category from other manufacturers with respect to the sale of lower-margin products to wholesalers and third party embellishers, whose purchasing decisions are primarily driven by price, rather than brand name recognition. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2012, our top 10 customers accounted for 63% of our net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 28% and 18% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of hanesbrands top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from hanesbrands could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 14 table of contents any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have an extensive global supply chain. a significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; other security risks; operational disruptions; disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the united states or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 25% of the cost of sales derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. 15 table of contents if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. as a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. however, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. if, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. we have restructured our supply chain to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the western hemisphere and asia. we consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. with our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we continue to be focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership arrangements. if we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. we distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third party logistics providers. because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. in addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. if we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 16 table of contents due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. if we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. in response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. moreover, we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through 17 table of contents quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the eu, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. sun capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the eu, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. 18 table of contents we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) under our senior secured credit facility (the senior secured credit facility ), our $250 million 8.000% senior notes due 2016 (the 8% senior notes ), our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and the $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 8% senior notes and the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio, and an additional covenant in the senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain a maximum total senior secured debt to ebitda ratio. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. our indebtedness also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower levels of debt. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our debt service obligations could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 11% and negative 1% during 2012 and 2011, respectively, are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act 19 table of contents funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 84% funded as of december 29, 2012. any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 29, 2012, we had approximately $433 million of goodwill and $120 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 15% of our total assets. in the second quarter of 2012, in connection with our imagewear restructuring we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $37 million related to our outer banks trademark and goodwill balances. no other impairment was identified in 2012, and we have not had any impairment charges in the last two years prior to 2012. changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. additionally, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the united states may result in capital investments outside the united states that impact our income tax expense. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 29, 2012, we had approximately $563 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 16% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and 20 table of contents regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. while we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2012, net sales from our international segment were $501 million, representing approximately 11% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and the imposition of new tariffs, quotas, taxes or exchange controls. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on wto rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country, including the imposition of further safeguard mechanisms by the u.s. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as china; changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; modification of the trading status of certain countries; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; creation of other restrictions on imports; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors, including those listed above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 21 table of contents we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. we had approximately 51,500 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2012, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 51,500 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2012. this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 43,900 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, approximately 30 of our employees in the united states are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may 22 table of contents consummate. newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 29, 2012, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $7 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility and accounts receivable securitization facility bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we are required under the senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. we are in compliance with this provision as a result of our 8% senior notes and 6.375% senior notes which bear interest at fixed rates. approximately 84% of our total debt outstanding at december 29, 2012 is at a fixed rate. given a substantial portion of our debt is at fixed rates, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 29, 2012 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of $1 million. commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers, while decreases in cotton prices can result in inventory comprised of products made from higher-cost yarn and in our purchase of cotton at contractually fixed prices that are above the current market rate. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. when we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. the yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 14% primarily as a result of cost inflation. costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. for example, we estimate that an increase of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $3 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced by third parties. the 56 table of contents ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, significant decreases in the price of cotton may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower gross margins, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $5 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. 9 table of contents significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. in october 2013, we acquired maidenform. the acquisition and integration of businesses such as maidenform involve a number of risks. we may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of the maidenform acquisition and other future acquisitions that we may consummate. maidenform and other future acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of the maidenform acquisition or other future acquisitions, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. maidenform and other acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of maidenform and other newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. the process of integrating the operations of maidenform or those of any other future acquisition could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. if we are unable to successfully integrate maidenform and other newly acquired businesses or if maidenform or other acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2013 , net sales from our international segment were $496 million, representing approximately 11% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. in our activewear segment, we also face competition in the branded printwear category from other manufacturers with respect to the sale of lower-margin products to wholesalers and third party embellishers, whose purchasing decisions are primarily driven by price, rather than brand name recognition. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like system failures, weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers' or distributors' operations. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or 11 table of contents distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 33% of the cost of sales derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. moreover, we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. in addition, any such failure, problem or breach could harm our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. 12 table of contents our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability o f the company and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to changes in legal and regulatory requirements, increased enforcement and our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels. in addition, as a result of operating in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding u.s. laws and regulations. we may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice. if we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, class action litigation or other litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2013 , our top 10 customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 27% and 19% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 13 table of contents if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales could be negatively affected. inadequate or ineffective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. additionally, if our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. 14 table of contents changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. additionally, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the united states may result in capital investments outside the united states that impact our income tax expense. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. similarly, any misuse of the wonderbra or playtex brands by sun capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. we are prohibited from selling our wonderbra and playtex intimate apparel products in the european union, as well as certain other countries in europe and south africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. sun capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the wonderbra and playtex trademarks in the member states of the european union, as well as russia, south africa, switzerland and certain other nations in europe. due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products in these nations and sun capital is not permitted to sell wonderbra and playtex branded products outside of these nations. consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of wonderbra and playtex products in these nations. for more information on these sales restrictions see business intellectual property. 15 table of contents if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness includes the $1.1 billion revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) under our senior secured credit facility (the senior secured credit facility ), our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and the $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. our indebtedness also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower levels of debt. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our debt service obligations could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 13% and 11% during 2013 and 2012 , respectively, are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial 16 table of contents statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 82% funded as of december 28, 2013 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 28, 2013 , we had approximately $626 million of goodwill and $378 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 25% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2013 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 28, 2013 , we had approximately $404 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 10% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we had approximately 49,700 employees worldwide as of december 28, 2013 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 49,700 employees worldwide as of december 28, 2013 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 41,400 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, approximately 250 of our employees in the united states are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. 17 table of contents our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 28, 2013 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $8 million. 44 table of contents interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility and accounts receivable securitization facility bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we are required under the senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. we are in compliance with this provision as a result of our 6.375% senior notes which bear interest at fixed rates. approximately 61% of our total debt outstanding at december 28, 2013 is at a fixed rate. given a substantial portion of our debt is at fixed rates, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 28, 2013 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $2 million. commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers, while decreases in cotton prices can result in inventory comprised of products made from higher-cost yarn and in our purchase of cotton at contractually fixed prices that are above the current market rate. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. when we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. the yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us represented approximately 7% of our cost of sales in 2013 . costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. for example, we estimate that an increase of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $3 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced by third parties. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, significant decreases in the price of cotton may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower gross margins, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $5 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. 9 table of contents our ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition activities could impact our business results. as a leading branded apparel company, we expect to continue pursuing strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy. the identification, acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks that could impact our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates. failure to identify and complete acquisitions may prevent us from expanding globally, protecting our market share or growing in complementary products or markets. we also face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business or if the acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 15% in 2014) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes on foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. the estimates and assumptions on which our financial statement projections are based may prove to be inaccurate, which may cause its actual results to materially differ from such projections, which may adversely affect our stock price. our financial statement projections are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, category growth, commodity prices, cost savings, foreign exchange rates, accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves, goodwill, market share projections, measurement of benefit obligations for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase our shares, make acquisitions, pay dividends and meet debt obligations. while our projections are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made, our actual results may differ materially from our financial outlook. any material variation between our projections and our actual results may adversely affect our stock price. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 10 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of consumers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products could decline. unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like system failures, weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers' or distributors' operations. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2014, net sales from our international segment were $798 million, representing approximately 15% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a 11 table of contents member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness includes the $1.1 billion revolving credit facility (the revolving loan facility ) under our senior secured credit facility (the senior secured credit facility ), our term loan facility with an aggregate principal amount of 363 million (the euro term loan ) under the senior secured credit facility, our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and the $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. our indebtedness also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower levels of debt. these competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. in addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. our debt service obligations could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 12 table of contents economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 35% of the cost of sales derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of the company and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to changes in legal and regulatory requirements, increased enforcement and our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels. in addition, as a result of operating in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding u.s. laws and regulations. we may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice. if we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, class action litigation or other litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2014 , our top 10 customers accounted for 59% of our net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 24% and 17% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 14 table of contents if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales could be negatively affected. inadequate or ineffective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. additionally, if our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms 15 table of contents and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 4% and 13% during 2014 and 2013 , respectively, are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 104% funded as of january 3, 2015 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. 16 table of contents as of january 3, 2015 , we had approximately $723 million of goodwill and $691 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 27% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2014 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of january 3, 2015 , we had approximately $405 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 8% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we had approximately 59,500 employees worldwide as of january 3, 2015 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 59,500 employees worldwide as of january 3, 2015 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 51,800 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, approximately 40 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only be the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which can only be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for 17 table of contents five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. the stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at january 3, 2015 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $15 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility and accounts receivable securitization facility bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. we are required under the senior secured credit facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. we are in compliance with this provision as a result of our 6.375% senior notes, which bear interest at fixed rates. approximately 54% of our total debt outstanding at january 3, 2015 is at a fixed rate. given a substantial portion of our debt is at fixed rates, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of january 3, 2015 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $2 million. 43 table of contents commodities cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. while we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers, while decreases in cotton prices can result in inventory comprised of products made from higher-cost yarn and in our purchase of cotton at contractually fixed prices that are above the current market rate. our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. we are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. when we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. the yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. however, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us represented approximately 7% of our cost of sales in 2014 . costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. for example, we estimate that an increase of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $3 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced by third parties. the ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, significant decreases in the price of cotton may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower gross margins, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $6 million, at current levels of usage.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses could impact our financial results. as a leading branded apparel company, we expect to continue pursuing strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy, such as our recent acquisition of knights apparel. difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of businesses that we acquire and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect will result from such transactions. achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. additional operational savings are dependent upon the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. complications or difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such acquisitions. annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the closing of the acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single set of data systems is not accomplished on a timely basis. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business or if the acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 9 table of contents any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 10 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. also, online retail shopping is rapidly evolving, and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 20% in 2015) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes on foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. 11 table of contents inability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates or commercially reasonable terms or maintain sufficient liquidity in the amounts and at the times needed could adversely impact our business. we rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our revolving loan facility and other external debt financings to meet the cash requirements of our business. we have significant capital requirements and will need continued access to debt capital from outside sources in order to efficiently fund the cash flow needs of our business and pursue strategic acquisitions. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt at a reasonable cost when necessary. the ability to have continued access to reasonably priced credit is dependent upon our current and future capital structure, financial performance, our credit ratings and general economic conditions. if we are unable to access the capital markets at a reasonable economic cost, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness includes (i) a $1.0 billion revolving loan facility (the revolving loan facility ), a $725 million term loan a facility (the term loan a facility ), a $425 million term loan b facility (the term loan b facility ) and a 363 million term loan b facility (the euro term loan facility and together with the term loan a facility and the term loan b facility, the term loan facility, and together with the revolving loan facility, the senior secured credit facility ), (ii) our $1 billion 6.375% senior notes due 2020 (the 6.375% senior notes ) and (iii) a $275 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the 6.375% senior notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12 table of contents our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2015, net sales from our international segment were $1.1 billion, representing approximately 20% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents we may be adversely affected by unseasonal or severe weather conditions. our business may be adversely affected by unseasonable or severe weather conditions. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, or periods of unseasonably cool and wet weather in the spring or summer, can negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. in addition, severe weather events such as snow storms or hurricanes typically lead to temporarily reduced retail traffic. any of these conditions could result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise and reduced replenishment shipments to our wholesale customers. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2015 , our top 10 customers accounted for 56% of our net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 23% and 15% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 35% of the cost of sales derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. 14 table of contents if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales could be negatively affected. inadequate or ineffective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. additionally, if our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. 15 table of contents we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a loss of approximately 3% during 2015 and a return of approximately 4% during 2014 , are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 104% funded as of january 2, 2016 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of january 2, 2016 , we had approximately $834 million of goodwill and $701 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 27% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2015 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 table of contents our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of january 2, 2016 , we had approximately $374 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 7% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we had approximately 65,300 employees worldwide as of january 2, 2016 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 65,300 employees worldwide as of january 2, 2016 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 57,600 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, approximately 30 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws, which can only be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of 17 table of contents approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at january 2, 2016 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $26 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, term loan a, term loan b, euro term loan and other international debt bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. approximately 40% of our total debt outstanding at january 2, 2016 is at a fixed rate. a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of january 2, 2016 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $4 million. commodities we are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. however, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices. 42 table of contentsrisk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and 9 table of contents manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. also, online retail shopping is rapidly evolving, and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 26% in 2016 ) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes on foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. the rapidly changing retail environment could result in the loss of or material reduction in sales to certain of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the retail environment is highly competitive. consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers is occurring online and through mobile commerce applications. if our brick-and-mortar retail customers fail to maintain or grow their overall market position through the integration of physical retail presence and digital retail, these customers may experience financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could, in turn, substantially reduce our revenues, increase our credit risk and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 10 table of contents we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the united states, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2016 , net sales from our international segment were $1.5 billion, representing approximately 26% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; 11 table of contents limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. recently, political discourse in the united states has increasingly focused on ways to discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions. many prominent government officials have publicly addressed the need to discourage these practices through television, new publications and social media platforms, including through the possibility of imposing tariffs, border adjustments or other penalties on goods manufactured outside the united states to attempt to discourage these practices. it has also been suggested that the united states may materially modify or withdraw from some of its existing trade agreements. any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our results of operations or profitability. further, our image, the reputation of our brands and our stock price may be adversely affected if we are publicly singled out for criticism by government officials as a result of our foreign operations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. in addition, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. inability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates or commercially reasonable terms or maintain sufficient liquidity in the amounts and at the times needed could adversely impact our business. we rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our revolving loan facility and other external debt financings to meet the cash requirements of our business. we have significant capital requirements and will need continued access to debt capital from outside sources in order to efficiently fund the cash flow needs of our business and pursue strategic acquisitions. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt at a reasonable cost when necessary. the ability to have continued access to reasonably priced credit is dependent upon our current and future capital structure, 12 table of contents financial performance, our credit ratings and general economic conditions. if we are unable to access the capital markets at a reasonable economic cost, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 28% of the units sold derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses could impact our financial results. as a leading branded apparel company, we expect to continue pursuing strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy, such as our recent acquisitions of champion europe and hanes australasia. difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of businesses that we acquire and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect will result from such transactions. achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. additional operational savings are dependent upon the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. complications or difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such acquisitions. annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the closing of the acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single set of data systems is not accomplished on a timely basis. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business or if the acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 13 table of contents we may be adversely affected by unseasonal or severe weather conditions. our business may be adversely affected by unseasonable or severe weather conditions. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, or periods of unseasonably cool and wet weather in the spring or summer, can negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. in addition, severe weather events such as snow storms or hurricanes typically lead to temporarily reduced retail traffic. any of these conditions could result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise and reduced replenishment shipments to our wholesale customers. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2016 , our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 52% of our net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target accounted for 20% and 15% of our net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, 14 table of contents such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales could be negatively affected. inadequate or ineffective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. additionally, if our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. 15 table of contents the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. if other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, may be adversely affected. we license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. in that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness primarily includes (i) a $1.0 billion revolving loan facility (the revolving loan facility ), a $725 million term loan a facility (the term loan a ), a $425 million term loan b facility (the term loan b ), a aud$200 million australian term a-1 loan facility (the australian term a-1 ), a aud$200 million australian term a-2 loan facility (the australian term a-2 ) and an aud$65 million australian revolving loan facility (the australian revolver and together with the revolving loan facility, the term loan a, the term loan b, the australian term a-1, the australian term a-2, and the australian revolver, the senior secured credit facility ), (ii) our $900 million 4.625% senior notes due 2024 (the 4.625% senior notes ) and our $900 million 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the 4.875% senior notes ), (iii) our 500 million 3.5% senior notes due 2024 (the 3.5% senior notes ) and (iv) a $275 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility contains restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the indentures governing the senior notes also restricts our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness in an amount that exceeds the greater of (a) $3.0 billion or (b) the amount that would cause our consolidated secured net debt ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00, as well as certain other customary covenants and restrictions. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate 16 table of contents activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for certain foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries and certain other foreign subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 3% during 2016 and a loss of approximately 3% during 2015 , are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds, hedge funds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 94% funded as of december 31, 2016 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. 17 table of contents our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $1.1 billion of goodwill and $1.3 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 35% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2016 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $414 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents approximately 6% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we had approximately 67,800 employees worldwide as of december 31, 2016 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 67,800 employees worldwide as of december 31, 2016 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 60,000 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, approximately 35 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall 18 table of contents serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. with our international commercial presence, we also have foreign entities that purchase raw materials and finished goods in u.s. dollars. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 31, 2016 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was $53 million. 45 table of contents interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, term loan a, term loan b, australian term a-1, australian term a-2, australian revolver, european revolver and other international debt bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. approximately 60% of our total debt outstanding at december 31, 2016 is at a fixed rate. a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 31, 2016 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $4 million. commodities we are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. however, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers, as well as mass merchant retailers, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. also, online retail shopping is rapidly evolving, and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine 8 table of contents our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. the rapidly changing retail environment could result in the loss of or material reduction in sales to certain of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the retail environment is highly competitive. consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers is occurring online and through mobile commerce applications. if our brick-and-mortar retail customers fail to maintain or grow their overall market position through the integration of physical retail presence and digital retail, these customers may experience financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could, in turn, substantially reduce our revenues, increase our credit risk and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as cotton, dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. in addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 9 table of contents due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 32% in 2017 ) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments to participants in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes on foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2017, net sales from our international segment were $2.1 billion, representing approximately 32% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. recently, political discourse in the united states has increasingly focused on ways to discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions. many prominent government officials have 10 table of contents publicly addressed the need to discourage these practices through television, news publications and social media platforms, including through the possibility of imposing tariffs or other penalties on goods manufactured outside the united states to attempt to discourage these practices. during 2017, the united states has withdrawn from some of its existing trade agreements and it has also been suggested that the united states may materially modify or withdraw from other trade agreements. any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our results of operations or profitability. further, our image, the reputation of our brands and our stock price may be adversely affected if we are publicly singled out for criticism by government officials as a result of our foreign operations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. in addition, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. the withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses could impact our financial results. as a leading branded apparel company, we expect to continue pursuing strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy, such as our recent acquisitions of champion europe, hanes australasia and alternative apparel. difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of businesses that we acquire and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect will result from such transactions. achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. additional operational savings are dependent upon the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. complications or difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such acquisitions. annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the closing of the acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single set of data systems is not accomplished on a timely basis. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business or if the acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2017 , our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 46% of our total net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target accounted for 18% and 13% of our total net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially 11 table of contents reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. in order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase portions of income remitted to the united states from our foreign subsidiaries, which may increase our income tax expense. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted. the tax act significantly revised u.s. corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the corporate income tax rate to 21%, introducing a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and implementing a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings from foreign subsidiaries. we have estimated the impact of the newly enacted law by incorporating assumptions made based upon our current interpretation and analysis to date of the tax act. some of the tax provisions that become effective during fiscal year 2018 are expected to increase our effective tax rate, such as the new gilti tax regime. the actual impact of the tax act may differ from our estimates due to, among other things, further refinement of our calculations as allowed under staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ), changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the tax act. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), the global data protection regulation, securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 27% of the units sold derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their 12 table of contents financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands. if the reputation of one or more of our brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. many of our brands have worldwide recognition, and our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands. the success of a brand can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers. our results could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial harm to its reputation due to a significant product recall, product-related litigation or the sale of counterfeit products. additionally, negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about the company, its practices or one of its brands could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands. we also license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. if the reputation of one or more of our brands is significantly eroded, it could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory levels with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. we may be adversely affected by unseasonal or severe weather conditions. our business may be adversely affected by unseasonable or severe weather conditions. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, or periods of unseasonably cool and wet weather in the spring or summer, can negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. in addition, severe weather events such as snow storms or hurricanes typically lead to 13 table of contents temporarily reduced retail traffic. any of these conditions could result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise and reduced replenishment shipments to our wholesale customers. inability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates or commercially reasonable terms or maintain sufficient liquidity in the amounts and at the times needed could adversely impact our business. we rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our revolving loan facility and other external debt financings to meet the cash requirements of our business. we have significant capital requirements and will need continued access to debt capital from outside sources in order to efficiently fund the cash flow needs of our business and pursue strategic acquisitions. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt at a reasonable cost when necessary. the ability to have continued access to reasonably priced credit is dependent upon our current and future capital structure, financial performance, our credit ratings and general economic conditions. if we are unable to access the capital markets at a reasonable economic cost, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales could be negatively affected. inadequate or ineffective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. additionally, if our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which 14 table of contents we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our securities. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness primarily includes (i) a $1.0 billion revolving loan facility (the revolving loan facility ), a $750 million term loan a facility (the term loan a ), a $500 million term loan b facility (the term loan b ), a aud$200 million australian term a-1 loan facility (the australian term a-1 ) and an aud$65 million australian revolving loan facility (the australian revolver and together with the revolving loan facility, the term loan a, the term loan b, the australian term a-1 and the australian revolver, the senior secured credit facility ), (ii) our $900 million 4.625% senior notes due 2024 (the 4.625% senior notes ) and our $900 million 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the 4.875% senior notes ), (iii) our 500 million 3.5% senior notes due 2024 (the 3.5% senior notes ) and (iv) a $275 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ). the senior secured credit facility contains restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the indentures governing the senior notes also restrict our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness in an amount that exceeds the greater of (a) $3.0 billion or (b) the amount that would cause our consolidated secured net debt ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00, as well as certain other customary covenants and restrictions. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for certain foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries and certain other foreign subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these 15 table of contents pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 11% during 2017 and a return of approximately 3% during 2016 , are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds, hedge funds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our consolidated financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 94% funded as of december 30, 2017 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. 16 table of contents as of december 30, 2017 , we had approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill and $1.4 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 37% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2017 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 30, 2017 , we had approximately $197 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents approximately 3% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we had approximately 67,200 employees worldwide as of december 30, 2017 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to u.s. or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 67,200 employees worldwide as of december 30, 2017 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 59,200 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, less than 50 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially 17 table of contents owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. with our international commercial presence, we also have foreign entities that purchase raw materials and finished goods in u.s. dollars. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 30, 2017 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was approximately $61 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, term loan a, term loan b, australian term a-1, australian revolver, european revolver and other international debt bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. approximately 60% of our total debt outstanding at december 30, 2017 is at a fixed rate. a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of december 30, 2017 would only result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $4 million. commodities we are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. however, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading price of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. 8 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers, as well as mass merchant retailers, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. also, online retail shopping is rapidly evolving, and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. the rapidly changing retail environment could result in the loss of or material reduction in sales to certain of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the retail environment is highly competitive. consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers is occurring online and through mobile commerce applications. if our brick-and-mortar retail customers fail to maintain or grow their overall market position through the integration of physical retail presence and digital retail, these customers may experience financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could, in turn, create difficulty in moving our products to market, which would increase inventories or backlog, substantially reduce our revenues, increase our credit risk and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. despite our policies, procedures and programs designed to ensure the integrity of our information technology systems, we may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to which we are exposed. furthermore, from time to time we rely on information technology systems which may be managed, hosted, provided and/or accessed by third parties or their vendors to assist in conducting our business. such relationships and access may create difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures or fully mitigating harms after a breach. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex attacks that may include computer viruses or other malicious codes, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, denial of service attacks and large-scale automated attacks, phishing, social engineering, hacking and other cyber-attacks. any breach of our network or databases, or those of our third party providers, may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, impair our ability to order materials, make and ship orders, and process payments, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data, including, among other, the general data protection regulation in effect in the european union. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings, and potentially significant monetary penalties, against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. 9 table of contents significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, including cotton, dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. in addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience that would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 34% in 2018 ) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments to participants in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2018 , our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 42% of our total net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 16% and 12% of our total net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a 10 table of contents decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2018, net sales from our international segment were $2.3 billion , representing approximately 34% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. recently, political discourse in the united states has increasingly focused on ways to discourage united states corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions. many prominent government officials have publicly addressed the need to discourage these practices through television, news publications and social media platforms, including through the possibility of imposing tariffs or other penalties on goods manufactured outside the united states to attempt to discourage these practices. during 2017, the united states withdrew from some of its existing trade agreements and it has also been suggested that the united states may materially modify or withdraw from other trade agreements. furthermore, it is possible that other forms of trade restriction, including tariffs, quotas and customs restrictions, will be put into place in the united states or in countries from which we source our materials or finished products. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our results of operations or profitability. further, our image, the reputation of our brands and our stock price may be adversely affected if we are publicly singled out for criticism by government officials as a result of our foreign operations. we are also subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. in addition, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit. this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. the withdrawal could significantly 11 table of contents disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. we have historically pursued strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy and may continue to do so in the future. the success of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated. we cannot assure you that we will realize the full expected benefits of any acquisition within the anticipated time frame or at all. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming, diverting management attention from core operations, and may not be entirely successful. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our self-manufactured products and the sourced finished goods that we design from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory levels with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory 12 table of contents levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands. if the reputation of one or more of our brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. many of our brands have worldwide recognition, and our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands. the success of a brand can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers. our results could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial harm to its reputation due to a significant product recall, product-related litigation or the sale of counterfeit products. additionally, negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about the company, its practices or one of its brands could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands. we also license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. if the reputation of one or more of our brands is significantly eroded, it could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. we are continuously evaluating its capital allocation strategies in an effort maximize shareholder value, which includes maintaining appropriate debt to earnings ratios, and as a result there may be times where we need to reevaluate our plans to permanently reinvest certain unremitted foreign earnings to the united states which may increase or decrease our income tax expense during periods of change. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted. the tax act significantly revised united states corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the corporate income tax rate to 21%, introducing a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and implementing a modified territorial tax system that included a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings from foreign subsidiaries. in the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our accounting as it relates to the enactment of the tax act pursuant to the guidance set forth in staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ) and have accounted for the tax provisions of the tax act which became effective in 2018. the actual impact of the tax act may differ from amounts recorded to date as further guidance and regulations continue to be issued to further clarify and help taxpayers interpret various components of the tax act. 13 table of contents our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the false claims act, the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), the global data protection regulation, securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. our customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. if our advertising, marketing and promotional programs are unsuccessful, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our sales could be negatively affected. ineffective marketing, advertising and promotional programs could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. while we use social media, websites, mobile applications, email, print and television to promote our products and attract customers, some of our competitors may expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or prevent or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or the market price of our securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial 14 table of contents difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 29, 2018 , we had approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill and $1.6 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 39% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2018 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear and our donna karan and dkny intimate apparel. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. 15 table of contents we may be adversely affected by unseasonal or severe weather conditions. our business may be adversely affected by unseasonable or severe weather conditions. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, or periods of unseasonably cool and wet weather in the spring or summer, can negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. in addition, severe weather events such as snow storms or hurricanes typically lead to temporarily reduced retail traffic. any of these conditions could result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise and reduced replenishment shipments to our wholesale customers. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness primarily includes (i) a $1.0 billion revolving loan facility (the revolving loan facility ), a $750 million term loan a facility (the term loan a ), a $500 million term loan b facility (the term loan b ), a a$200 million australian term a-1 loan facility (the australian term a-1 ) and an a$65 million australian revolving loan facility (the australian revolver and together with the revolving loan facility, the term loan a, the term loan b and the australian term a-1, the senior secured credit facility ), (ii) our $900 million 4.625% senior notes due 2024 (the 4.625% senior notes ) and our $900 million 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the 4.875% senior notes ), (iii) our 500 million 3.5% senior notes due 2024 (the 3.5% senior notes and together with the 4.625% senior notes and the 4.875% senior notes, the senior notes ), and (iv) a $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ) and (v) a 100 million european revolving loan facility (the european revolving loan facility ). the senior secured credit facility contains restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the indentures governing the senior notes also restrict our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness in an amount that exceeds the greater of (a) $3.0 billion or (b) the amount that would cause our consolidated secured net debt ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00, as well as certain other customary covenants and restrictions. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for certain foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries and certain other foreign subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility or the accounts receivable securitization facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. 16 table of contents market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a loss of approximately 5% during 2018 and a return of approximately 11% during 2017 , are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds, hedge funds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our consolidated financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 93% funded as of december 29, 2018 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. we must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. as of december 29, 2018 , we had approximately $163 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents approximately 2% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. a significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. inability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates or commercially reasonable terms or maintain sufficient liquidity in the amounts and at the times needed could adversely impact our business. we rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our revolving loan facility and other external debt financings to meet the cash requirements of our business. we have significant capital requirements and will need continued access to debt capital from outside sources in order to efficiently fund the cash flow needs of our business and pursue strategic acquisitions. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt at a reasonable cost when necessary. the ability to have continued access to reasonably priced credit is dependent upon our current and future capital structure, financial performance, our credit ratings and general economic conditions. if we are unable to access the capital markets at a reasonable economic cost, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. we had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2018 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to united states or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide as of december 29, 2018 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 60,000 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require 17 table of contents that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, less than 40 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange risk we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. with our international commercial presence, we also have foreign entities that purchase raw materials and finished goods in u.s. dollars. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. at december 29, 2018 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was approximately $58 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, term loan a, term loan b, australian term a-1, australian revolver, european revolver, certain other international debt and notes payable bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt and notes payable. approximately 59% of our total debt and notes payable outstanding at december 29, 2018 is at a fixed rate. a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt and notes payable balances as of december 29, 2018 would result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $4 million. commodities we are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. however, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices.risk factors this section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading price of our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. the basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. competition generally is based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers, as well as mass merchant retailers, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. also, online retail shopping is rapidly evolving, and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash 8 table of contents flows, operating margins and profitability. our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies to gain market share and better service our customer base will, in large part, determine our future success. if we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. the rapidly changing retail environment could result in the loss of or material reduction in sales to certain of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the retail environment is highly competitive. consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers is occurring online and through mobile commerce applications. if our brick-and-mortar retail customers fail to maintain or grow their overall market position through the integration of physical retail presence and digital retail, these customers may experience financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could, in turn, create difficulty in moving our products to market, which would increase inventories or backlog, substantially reduce our revenues, increase our credit risk and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security breach with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively and support global growth and expansion, problems with integrating various data sources, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. despite our policies, procedures and programs designed to ensure the integrity of our information technology systems, we may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to which we are exposed. furthermore, from time to time we rely on information technology systems which may be managed, hosted, provided and/or accessed by third parties or their vendors to assist in conducting our business. such relationships and access may create difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures or fully mitigating harms after a breach. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex attacks that may include computer viruses or other malicious codes, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, denial of service attacks and large-scale automated attacks, phishing, social engineering, hacking and other cyber-attacks. any breach of our network or databases, or those of our third-party providers, may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, impair our ability to order materials, make and ship orders, and process payments, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. moreover, there are numerous laws and regulations regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, transfer, disclosure and protection of personal data, the scope of which is changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between states within a country or between countries. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) became effective on may 25, 2018, and has resulted and will continue to result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs for companies with users and operations in the european union and european economic area. under gdpr, fines of up to 20 million euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater, can be imposed for violations. we have significant operations in the european economic area and are subject to the gdpr. the gdpr imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data and could make it more difficult and/or more costly for us to use and share personal data. further, following a referendum in june 2016 in which voters in the united kingdom approved an exit from the european union, the united kingdom government has initiated a process to leave the european union. this has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the united kingdom. in particular, it is unclear whether the united kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with gdpr and how data transfers to and from the united kingdom will be regulated. in addition, california recently adopted the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective january 1, 2020, and limits how we may collect and use personal data. the effects of the ccpa potentially are far-reaching, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. non-compliance with these laws could result in penalties or significant legal liability. although we take reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to regulatory action, including fines, in the event of a data security incident. we or our third-party service providers could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our or our third-party service providers' business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our or our third-party service providers' business, 9 table of contents results of operations or financial condition. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings, and potentially significant monetary penalties, against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, including cotton, dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. in addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. if, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if our competitors' unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience that would be difficult to replace. the loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. our future success will also depend on our ability to develop and/or recruit employees with the core competencies needed to support our growth in global markets and in new products or services. we may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. our failure to properly manage strategic projects in order to achieve the desired results may negatively impact our business. the implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex projects, which places significant demands on our management, accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. our ability to successfully implement such projects is dependent on management's ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to our changing business needs. we cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage these projects effectively or implement them successfully. if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement the project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. a growing percentage of our total revenues (approximately 36% in 2019 ) is derived from markets outside the united states. we sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments to participants in our supply chain in foreign currencies. as a result, when the u.s. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. outside the united states, we may pay for materials or finished products in u.s. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the u.s. dollars we need to make such payments. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. we use forward foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and nonderivative financial instruments to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. 10 table of contents we rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2019 , our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 40% of our total net sales and our top two customers, wal-mart and target, accounted for 14% and 11% of our total net sales, respectively. we expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. we generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. a decision by any of our top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from us could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. during 2019 , net sales from our international segment were $2.5 billion , representing approximately 36% of total net sales. in addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the united states. as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. these risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the united states from a particular country; requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; limitations on foreign owned businesses; or government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. the recent imposition of tariffs and/or increase in tariffs on various products by the united states and other countries have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to trade policies and government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. furthermore, it is possible that other forms of trade restriction, including tariffs, quotas and customs restrictions, will be put into place in the united states or in countries from which we source our materials or finished products. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our results of operations or profitability. further, any emerging nationalist trends in specific countries could alter the 11 table of contents trade environment and consumer purchasing behavior which, in turn, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the ongoing negotiations surrounding the united kingdom's exit from the european union ( brexit ) have yet to provide clarity on what the outcome will be for the united kingdom or europe. changes related to brexit could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results. we have a complex multinational tax structure with multiple types of intercompany transactions, and our allocation of profits and losses among us and our subsidiaries through our intercompany transfer pricing agreements is subject to review by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. we are continuously evaluating our capital allocation strategies in an effort to maximize shareholder value, which includes maintaining appropriate debt to earnings ratios, and as a result there may be times where we need to reevaluate our plans to permanently reinvest certain unremitted foreign earnings which may increase or decrease our income tax expense during periods of change. in addition, we are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns and related transfer pricing documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, as well as our capital deployment strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted. the tax act significantly revised united states corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the corporate income tax rate to 21%, introducing a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and implementing a modified territorial tax system that included a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings from foreign subsidiaries. in the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our accounting as it relates to the enactment of the tax act pursuant to the guidance set forth in staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ) and accounted for the tax provisions of the tax act which became effective in 2018. the actual impact of the tax act may differ from amounts recorded to date as further guidance and regulations continue to be issued to further clarify and help taxpayers interpret various components of the tax act. we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, our brands and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act. under the direction of our chief executive officer and interim chief financial officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. as a result of this evaluation, management identified control deficiencies that constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to the accounting for the existence and accuracy of income taxes. because of this material weakness identified in 2019, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 28, 2019. 12 table of contents as described in management's report on internal control over financial reporting, this material weakness resulted in a revision to our annual and interim consolidated financial statements in 2018 and 2017 and our interim financial statements in 2019. accordingly, impacted financial statements have been revised in this annual report on form 10-k. management has and will continue to enhance its internal control over financial reporting, which is expected to include refinements and enhancements to the design and operation of our controls related to income taxes. enhancements made to certain of our controls related to income taxes during 2019 contributed to the identification of the errors which impacted prior periods that have been corrected as disclosed in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. the company intends to implement these enhancements to the design and operation of our controls during 2020. however, the material weakness will not be considered remediated until management designs and implements effective controls that operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are effective. we will monitor the effectiveness of the remediation plan and will refine the remediation plan, as needed. until remediated, this material weakness could result in future errors to our financial statements. however, we can give no assurance that the measures we take will remediate the material weakness or that additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. any failure to remediate the material weakness, or the development of new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations, which in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition. our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products. we are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory levels with our ability to meet marketplace needs. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings, as well as unanticipated changes in general economic conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers. inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. as a result, we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third-party manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands. if the reputation of one or more of our brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. many of our brands have worldwide recognition, and our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands. the success of a brand can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers. our results could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial harm to its reputation due to a significant product recall, product-related litigation or the sale of counterfeit products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including changing consumer attitudes regarding social issues and consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about the company, its practices or one of its brands could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands. we also license some of our important trademarks to third parties. for example, we license champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with 13 table of contents those mechanisms and obligations. if the reputation of one or more of our brands is significantly eroded, it could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. we purchase all of the raw materials used in our self-manufactured products and our sourced finished goods from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. the magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. our customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or skus, we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support, which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the false claims act, the u.s. employee retirement income security act, the global data protection regulation, securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws and many others. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to us or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, 14 table of contents logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. in addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. if third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our consolidated statement of income. goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. the fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. as of december 28, 2019 , we had approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill and $1.5 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 37% of our total assets. no impairment was identified in 2019 . changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. we have a complex global supply chain and distribution network that supports our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. climate change serves as a risk multiplier increasing both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations. therefore, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. all of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if our advertising, marketing and promotional programs are unsuccessful, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our sales could be negatively affected. ineffective marketing, advertising and promotional programs could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales. while we use social media, websites, mobile applications, email, print and television to promote our products and attract customers, some of our competitors may expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may adversely affect our operating results. as of december 28, 2019 , we had approximately $95 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents approximately 1% of our total assets. deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). the recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. changes in effective tax rates and the assumptions and estimates we have made, as well as our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, could result in a write 15 table of contents down of deferred tax assets or otherwise materially affect our tax obligations or effective tax rate, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. we design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. if any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. we design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our polo ralph lauren men's underwear. because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. if any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. we aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. the value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. we are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. we may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. we cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in asia, central america and the caribbean basin. if one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands' image or result in a loss of sales. in addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. we have historically pursued strategic acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy and may continue to do so in the future. the success of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. in addition, following completion of an acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired business have achieved or might achieve separately. acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such other businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated. we cannot assure you that we will realize the full expected benefits of any acquisition within the anticipated time frame or at all. in addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming, diverting management attention from core operations, and may not be entirely successful. the process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses 16 table of contents and the possible loss of key personnel. integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to successfully integrate any newly acquired business, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we had approximately 63,000 employees worldwide as of december 28, 2019 , and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to united states or foreign employment regulations. we had approximately 63,000 employees worldwide as of december 28, 2019 . this means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. approximately 55,000 of those employees were outside of the united states. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. in addition, less than 20 of our employees in the united states and a significant number of our international employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. we may be adversely affected by unseasonal or severe weather conditions. our business may be adversely affected by unseasonable or severe weather conditions. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, or periods of unseasonably cool and wet weather in the spring or summer, can negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. in addition, severe weather events such as snow storms or hurricanes typically lead to temporarily reduced retail traffic. any of these conditions could result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise and reduced replenishment shipments to our wholesale customers. we are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. our indebtedness primarily includes (i) a $1.0 billion revolving loan facility (the revolving loan facility ), a $750 million term loan a facility (the term loan a ), a $500 million term loan b facility (the term loan b ) and an a$65 million australian revolving loan facility (the australian revolver and together with the revolving loan facility, the term loan a and the term loan b, the senior secured credit facility ), (ii) our $900 million 4.625% senior notes due 2024 (the 4.625% senior notes ) and our $900 million 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the 4.875% senior notes ), (iii) our 500 million 3.5% senior notes due 2024 (the 3.5% senior notes and together with the 4.625% senior notes and the 4.875% senior notes, the senior notes ), and (iv) and up to $300 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the accounts receivable securitization facility ) and (v) a 100 million european revolving loan facility (the european revolving loan facility ). the senior secured credit facility contains restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. the indentures governing the senior notes also restrict our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness in an amount that exceeds the greater of (a) $3.0 billion or (b) the amount that would cause our consolidated secured net debt ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00, as well as certain other customary covenants and restrictions. these restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness and increases the interest rate on the outstanding principal amount under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for certain foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our u.s. subsidiaries and certain other foreign subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. the financial institutions that are party to the 17 table of contents accounts receivable securitization facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivable. as a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, and if we fail to meet our repayment or other obligations under the accounts receivable securitization facility, the secured parties under that facility will be entitled to take control of our accounts receivable pledged to them and all collections on those receivables, and direct our obligors to make payment on such receivables directly to the secured parties, which in each case would adversely impact the operations of our business. our revolving loan facility, term loan a, term loan b and european revolving loan facility bear interest based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the contemplated transition away from libor as a benchmark reference for short-term interests may result in the usage of a higher reference rate for our variable rate debt. market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. the plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 15% during 2019 and a loss of approximately 5% during 2018 , are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds, hedge funds and real estate. we are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the united states, europe and asia. the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our consolidated financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. under the pension protection act of 2006 (the pension protection act ), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. under the pension protection act funding rules, our u.s. qualified pension plan is approximately 91% funded as of december 28, 2019 . any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. inability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates or commercially reasonable terms or maintain sufficient liquidity in the amounts and at the times needed could adversely impact our business. we rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our revolving loan facility and other external debt financings to meet the cash requirements of our business. we have significant capital requirements and will need continued access to debt capital from outside sources in order to efficiently fund the cash flow needs of our business and pursue strategic acquisitions. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt at a reasonable cost when necessary. the ability to have continued access to reasonably priced credit is dependent upon our current and future capital structure, financial performance, our credit ratings and general economic conditions. if we are unable to access the capital markets at a reasonable economic cost, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as maryland law, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. our charter permits our board of directors, with the approval of a majority of the entire board and without stockholder approval, to amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. in addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and other terms and conditions of the classified or reclassified shares. our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. our charter also provides that a director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, as defined in our charter, and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. we have also elected to be subject to certain provisions of maryland law that provide that any and all vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our remaining directors in office, even if they do not constitute a quorum, and that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the full term of the directorship in which the vacancy occurred. under maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of 18 table of contents directors or by a stockholder who was a stockholder of record both at the time of giving notice by the stockholder in accordance with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. also, under maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the then-outstanding voting power of our stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the then-outstanding voting power of our stock. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. however, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares. the statute permits various other exemptions from its provisions. these and other provisions of maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. foreign exchange rates we sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in u.s. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. with our international commercial presence, we also have foreign entities that purchase raw materials and finished goods in u.s. dollars. we are also exposed to foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. we use forward foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and nonderivative financial instruments to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward foreign exchange and cross-currency swap derivative contracts. at december 28, 2019 , the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was approximately $103 million. interest rates our debt under the revolving loan facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, term loan a, term loan b, australian revolver, european revolver, certain other international debt and notes payable bears interest at variable rates. as a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt and notes payable. approximately 69% of our total debt and notes payable outstanding at december 28, 2019 is at a fixed rate. a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt and notes payable balances as of december 28, 2019 would result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $3 million. 40 table of contents commodity prices we are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. however, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. in addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. we generally purchase raw materials at market prices.