risk factors 17 risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could continue to fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped bidding projects in their transportation departments. 17 table of contents we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. the recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of texas, north carolina, georgia, iowa and louisiana, our profitability will decrease. we are experiencing this situation with the current economic recession. the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. use of aggregate products in the united states has declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. the states have also reduced their construction spending because of budget shortfalls caused by lower tax revenues and uncertainly relating to long-term federal highway funding. there has been a reduction in many states investment in highway maintenance. these factors resulted in a continued reduction in sales of aggregate products for the company during 2009, which, combined with a widespread decline in aggregates pricing, hurt the company business. in february 2009, president obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which was designed to stimulate the economy by providing over $29 billion in new funding for transportation infrastructure. however, nationally only about 21% of stimulus spending occurred in 2009. the majority of stimulus spending is expected to occur in 2010 with expected carryover in 2011 and 2012, the last year of the stimulus plan spending. while management believes the federal stimulus plan will increase the company aggregates shipments in 2010 and 2011, we cannot be assured of the full impact of the stimulus plan. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both commercial construction and residential construction. commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit availability. the commercial construction market remained weak in 2009, notably in office and retail construction. management expects the commercial construction market to decline in 2010. approximately 25% of our aggregates shipments in 2009 were to the commercial construction market. also, continued weakness in the residential construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. the residential construction market remained dismal in 2009 in connection with the housing market downtown. while management believes the residential construction market has bottomed out and 18 table of contents expects moderate growth in 2010, we cannot be assured of such growth. approximately 7% of our aggregates shipments in 2009 were to the residential construction market. our aggregate products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on these projects. the current federal highway law passed in 2005 provided funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs but ended september 30, 2009. while a multi-year successor federal highway bill has not been approved, congress has extended the provisions of the current law under continuing resolutions through february 28, 2010. we cannot be assured that congress will pass a multi-year successor federal highway bill or will continue to extend the provisions of the current law at the same level authorized in the current federal highway law. similarly, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. nearly all states are now experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina and texas are among the states experiencing these pressures, and these states disproportionately affect our revenues and profits. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material, particularly by barge. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies, restrict production, and limit movement of barge traffic. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to 19 table of contents transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower 20 table of contents margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2008, increases in energy costs lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.65 per diluted share when compared with 2007 prices. conversely, in 2009, decreases in energy costs contributed $1.01 to our net earnings per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. in addition, the price of liquid asphalt is a large part of the cost of producing hot mix asphalt products and can cause road builders and commercial contractors to delay or defer work in anticipation of liquid asphalt cost changes. in 2008, liquid asphalt prices more than doubled over the prior year price, with prices in excess of $800 per ton at their peak. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. 21 table of contents these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. we are currently involved in various legal proceedings in both federal and state courts relating to our greenwood, missouri operations. a jury verdict for actual and exemplary damages was rendered against us in favor of the city of greenwood in one of the state court proceedings based on the jury finding that quarry customers trucks caused damage to a road in greenwood. the missouri supreme court recently declined to accept our appeal in this proceeding. the company management believes this result in state court is unsupported by relevant legal principles and is considering our alternatives, although we cannot reasonably predict the ultimate outcome of this proceeding. accordingly, we have recorded an $11.9 million legal reserve on our books as of december 31, 2009. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 13.1% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 97.4% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the woodville, ohio lime plant and the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in june 2010 and august 2011, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeastern region of the united states. in 2005 and 2006, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. in 2007, dry weather caused low water levels and resulted in reduced tonnage that could be shipped on a barge. consequently, the per ton cost of transporting material was higher than normal. in 2008 high water levels from severe flooding in iowa hurt both shipments and operations. 22 table of contents the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. in 2007, barges were particularly scarce, as barges were being retired faster than new barges were being built. in 2005, we leased 780 additional rail cars. in 2006, we contracted to buy 50 new barges that were delivered in 2007. in 2008, we leased additional rail cars in the southwest. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this resulted in a reduction of our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. beginning in 2009, we were required under new accounting standards to determine whether instruments granted in stock-based payment transactions under our employee benefit plans were considered participating securities and included in determining our earnings per share. this resulted in a reduction of our previously-reported net earnings and decreased our previously-reported earnings per share amounts. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2009 financial statements. 23 table of contents we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during this economic downturn we have been forced to shut down some of our facilities permanently and have temporarily idled others. in 2009, the company aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the company ability to capitalize $48.8 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. if demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. the current credit environment has limited our ability to issue borrowings under our commercial paper program. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. in 2009, we issued 3.8 million shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $293 million. we also entered into a $100 million three-year secured accounts receivable credit facility and a $130 million unsecured term loan. we further amended our various credit agreements to provide for an increased leverage ratio covenant. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. 24 table of contents we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. our senior unsecured (long term) debt is rated bbb by standard poor and baa3 by moody s. our commercial paper is rated a-2 by standard poor and p-3 by moody s. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. we anticipate this weakness to continue in 2010. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not 25 table of contents approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes to fund deficits; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed all known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements under item 1a of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition under item 1 on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2009 annual report, 26 table of contents and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2009 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2009 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2009 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 17 risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual 17 table of contents results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. the overall united states economy remains weak, with national debt at a record high. while we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2010, the first year of volume growth since 2005, demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. the recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of texas, north carolina, georgia, 18 table of contents iowa and louisiana, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. our 5.4% increase in aggregates shipments in 2010 was our first year of volume growth since 2005. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, the current uncertainty created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill has negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. there has been a reduction in many states investment in highway maintenance. in february 2009, president obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which was designed to stimulate the economy by providing over $29 billion in new funding for transportation infrastructure. however, the lack of shovel-ready projects and the substitution of stimulus funds for other projects has both delayed and limited the impact of this stimulus spending on the aggregates industry. stimulus spending in four of the top seven states, based on sales, of our aggregates business, lag the national average. we expect approximately 30% of stimulus-related jobs in our critical states will be completed in 2011, with any carryover in 2012, the last year of the stimulus plan spending. we cannot be assured of the full impact of the stimulus plan. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit availability. we experienced an 8% increase in shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2010, with growth driven by shipments to the energy sector to support natural gas drilling and exploration projects. however, other components of the nonresidential construction market remained weak in 2010 and were negatively affected by continued weakness in the residential construction market. the commercial part of nonresidential construction generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. we expect this component of the nonresidential construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2011. approximately 26% of our aggregates shipments in 2010 were to the nonresidential construction market. our shipments to the residential construction market increased 5% in 2010. while the federal reserve kept the federal funds rate at 0% throughout the year, overall weakness in the u.s. economy and reduced consumer lending by banks limited the impact of this low rate. the excess supply of developed lots also stifled new housing starts. although we expect moderate improvement in the residential construction market in 2011, housing starts are not expected to achieve a normalized level, estimated at 1.5 million starts nationally, until 2013. approximately 7% of our aggregates shipments in 2010 were to the residential construction market. 19 table of contents shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales ( chemrock/rail ) increased 5% in 2010, primarily due to increased railroad industry demand. three of our top ten customers in 2010 were railroads. we expect our chemrock/rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2011 compared to 2010. our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the most recent federal highway bill passed in 2005 provided funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs, but ended september 30, 2009. while a multi-year successor federal highway bill has not been approved, congress has extended the provisions of the current law under continuing resolutions through march 4, 2011. given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that congress will pass a multi-year successor federal highway bill or will continue to extend the provisions of the most recent law at the same levels. historically, states have been reluctant to commit to long-term projects while under continuing resolutions. in fact, obligations for federal highway funds are at a five-year low through the first half of the fiscal year ending june 30, 2011. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past three years. presently, the congressional budget office projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the highway trust fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner sometime during 2012. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. nearly all states are now experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina and texas are among 20 table of contents the states experiencing these pressures, and these states disproportionately affect our revenues and profits. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material, particularly by barge. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies, restrict production, and limit movement of barge traffic. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. 21 table of contents our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2008, increases in energy costs when compared with 2007 prices lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.65 per diluted share. conversely, in 2009, decreases in energy 22 table of contents costs compared with 2008 prices contributed $1.01 to our net earnings per diluted share. but in 2010, increases in energy costs compared with 2009 prices again lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.34 per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 12.9% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for 23 table of contents employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio lime plant expire in august 2011 and june 2014, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeastern region of the united states. in 2005 and 2006, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. 24 table of contents while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this resulted in a reduction of our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. beginning in 2009, we were required under new accounting standards to determine whether instruments granted in stock-based payment transactions under our employee benefit plans were considered participating securities and included in determining our earnings per share. this resulted in a reduction of our previously-reported net earnings and decreased our previously-reported earnings per share amounts. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2009 financial statements. the federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would confirm the accounting in the united states for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. we have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. historically our bad debt write-offs have 25 table of contents not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during this economic downturn we have been forced to temporarily idle some of our facilities. in 2010, the company aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the company ability to capitalize $52.4 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. if demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. in 2010, we repaid with cash $217.6 million of our floating rate senior notes. we plan to renegotiate our short-term and accounts credit facility with our banks. we expect to close on a new, multi-year credit facility by the end of the first quarter of 2011. we expect the new credit facility will have the same financial covenants as our existing credit facility and will provide us the ability to refinance our $242 million of notes that become due and payable in april 2011. while we anticipate this new credit facility will be in place by the end of the first quarter 2011, there is no guarantee we will be able to negotiate and put into place the credit facility as described. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. while steelmaking increased in 2010, it is still far below levels of the past. we anticipate this weakness to continue in 2011. the specialty products business also requires significant 26 table of contents amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes to fund deficits; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; 27 table of contents changes in share-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed all known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements under item 1a of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition under item 1 on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2010 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2010 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2010 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2010 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on page 50 of the 2002 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on pages 54 and 55 of the 2003 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on page 64 of the 2004 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference. 25 table of contentsrisk factors and forward-looking statements 18 risk factors and forward-looking statements an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our 2005 annual report to shareholders. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of texas, north carolina, georgia, iowa and florida, our profitability will decrease. 18 table of contents our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors. seasonal changes and other weather conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity and the demand for our products. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate products and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. it is expensive to acquire property and machinery and produce our products. therefore, we must have access to large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe we have adequate cash to run our businesses. because the business is capital intensive, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed in nature. therefore, our financial results are sensitive to product volume changes. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, 19 table of contents expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may need to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock may fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we acquired 62 companies from 1995 through 2002. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston and our road paving business in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected at times by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and energy, significant increases in costs or fluctuations in supplies of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to 20 table of contents hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 14.6% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 98.2% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the woodville, ohio lime plant and the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in june 2006 and august 2007, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2004 and partially in 2005, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeast. in 2005, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters like our treatment of goodwill, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex 21 table of contents judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are correct, we could be wrong, and our financial results could be different, either higher or lower, if our estimates and assumptions are wrong. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our 2005 annual report to shareholders. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we are required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this will result in a reduction in our earnings and will make comparisons between financial periods more difficult. we urge you to read about our accounting changes in note a of our 2005 financial statements. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the magnesia specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke and financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages. our structural composite products business is a start-up business that has not generated any profits since its inception. our structural composite products business faces many challenges before it becomes break-even or generates a profit. while it received its first significant orders in 2005, we cannot ensure the future profitability of this business. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and 22 table of contents may be material to the company. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements on pages 18-23 of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition on pages 11 and 12 of this annual report on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 36-71 of the 2005 annual report and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements on pages 17-21 and pages 32 and 33, respectively, of the audited consolidated financial statements included in the 2005 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on pages 69 and 70 of the 2005 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference. 28 table of contentsrisk factors and forward-looking statements 17 risk factors and forward-looking statements an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, wills, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify 17 table of contents forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our 2006 annual report to shareholders. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of north carolina, texas, georgia, iowa and south carolina, our profitability will decrease. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both commercial construction and residential construction. while the outlook for commercial construction is positive in many markets, residential construction declined in 2006 and is expected to decline further in 2007. approximately 20% of our aggregates shipments in 2006 were to the residential construction market. while we believe the downturn in residential construction will moderate during the latter part of 2007, we cannot be sure of the existence or timing of any moderation. our aggregate products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on these projects. for example, while the current federal highway law passed in 2005 provides funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs through september 30, 2009, congress must pass an appropriations bill each year to approve spending these funds. we cannot be assured that congress will pass an appropriations bill each year to approve funding at the level authorized in the federal highway law. similarly, each state funds its infrastructure spending from 18 table of contents specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. for example, we expect delays in infrastructure spending in north carolina and south carolina will continue in 2007, which will limit our business growth in those states until the level and timing of spending improves. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, seasonal changes and other weather conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity and the demand for our products. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we must have access to large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe we have adequate cash to run our businesses. because significant portions of our operating costs are fixed in nature, our financial results are sensitive to production volume changes. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our 19 table of contents magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we acquired 62 companies from 1995 through 2002. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected at times by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. 20 table of contents we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 13.7% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 99% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the woodville, ohio lime plant and the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in june 2010 and august 2007, respectively. while we do not expect any significant issues in renewing the manistee labor union agreement, we cannot be sure a new agreement will be reached at the manistee location this year. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeastern region of the united states. in 2005, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. in 2006, we experienced delays in shipping our materials through lock 52 on the ohio river while scheduled 21 table of contents repair and maintenance activities were performed. while the delays have ended, and normal water traffic has resumed, another two-week planned outage is currently scheduled for august 2007. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. barges have become particularly scarce, since barges are being retired faster than new barges are being built. shipyards that build barges are operating at capacity, so the lead time to buy or lease a new barge can extend many months. in 2005, we leased 780 additional rail cars. in 2006, we contracted to buy 50 new barges that will be delivered in 2007. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our stock-based compensation, our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our 2006 annual report to shareholders. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this resulted in a reduction of our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. we urge you to read about 22 table of contents our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2006 financial statements. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the magnesia specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages. our structural composites product line has not generated any profits since its inception. our structural composites product line faces many challenges before it becomes break-even or generates a profit. for 2007, we have set specific quarterly benchmarks for the structural composites product line to achieve in order for us to determine its viability. we cannot ensure the future profitability of this product line. market expectations for our financial performance are high. we believe that the price of our stock reflects the recent advantageous shift in industry pricing trends whereby there is increased demand for aggregates along with scarcity of supply in high-growth areas, which has resulted in prices that are higher than historic levels. if we are wrong about this change in pricing trends, then other market dynamics such as lower volumes, delays in infrastructure spending, declines in residential construction, and higher costs could result in lower pricing and lower earnings. if this happens, the market price of our stock could drop sharply. the price of our stock may also reflect market expectations regarding further consolidation of the aggregates industry. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: 23 table of contents a classified board of directors; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, customers, and creditors and the local community. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the board of directors. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements on pages 17-24 of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition on page 11 of this annual report on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 40-81 of the 2006 annual report and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements on pages 17-24 and pages 36 and 37, respectively, of the audited consolidated financial statements included in the 2006 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on pages 79 and 80 of the 2006 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors and forward-looking statements 16 risk factors and forward-looking statements an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of north carolina, texas, georgia, iowa and south carolina, our profitability will decrease. 16 table of contents within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both commercial construction and residential construction. commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. commercial construction was mixed in 2007, with growth slowing during the year. in some areas we saw declining commercial construction activity, including office and retail space, as developers considered the impact of the current credit markets on construction and development plans. businesses facing tighter credit conditions often find it difficult to obtain financing for capital investments. the residential construction market declined sharply in 2007 in connection with the housing market downtown. further, the outlook reflects diminished demand, with recovery not expected prior to late 2009 or 2010. approximately 12% of our aggregates shipments in 2007 were to the residential construction market. our aggregate products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on these projects. for example, while the current federal highway law passed in 2005 provides funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs through september 30, 2009, congress must pass an appropriations bill each year to approve spending these funds. we cannot be assured that congress will pass an appropriations bill each year to approve funding at the level authorized in the federal highway law. similarly, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. for example, we expect delays in infrastructure spending in florida, north carolina, south carolina, and texas will continue in 2008, which will limit our business growth in those states until the level and timing of spending improves. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, seasonal changes and other weather conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity and the demand for our products. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve 17 table of contents growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we must have access to large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe we have adequate cash to run our businesses. because significant portions of our operating costs are fixed in nature, our financial results are sensitive to production volume changes. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we acquired 62 companies from 1995 through 2002. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. 18 table of contents short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected at times by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. for example, in 2007, increases in fuel prices lowered net earnings for the aggregates business by $0.10 per diluted share when compared with 2006 fuel prices. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. 19 table of contents labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 12.7% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 90% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the woodville, ohio lime plant and the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in june 2010 and august 2011, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeastern region of the united states. in 2005 and 2006, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. in 2007, dry weather caused low water levels and resulted in reduced tonnage that could be shipped on a barge. consequently, the per ton cost of transporting material was higher than normal. the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. barges have become particularly scarce, since barges are being retired faster than new barges are being built. shipyards that build barges are operating at capacity, so the lead time to buy or lease a new barge can extend many months. in 2005, we leased 780 additional rail cars. in 2006, we contracted to buy 50 new barges that were delivered in 2007. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. 20 table of contents our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our stock-based compensation, our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this resulted in a reduction of our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2007 financial statements. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations to capital projects. we may also have difficulty placing our commercial paper in that it may take longer than we have recently experienced and/or may cost more. we experienced such problems in august and september, 2007, but have not had placement problems since that time. we expect we will refinance our $200 21 table of contents million notes due december 2008. however, there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages. our structural composites product line has not generated any profits since its inception. our structural composites product line faces many challenges before it becomes break-even or generates a profit. we cannot ensure the future profitability of this product line. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, customers, and creditors and the local community. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon substantial purchases of our common stock by a third party that are not approved by the board of directors. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking 22 table of contents statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements under item 1a of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition under item 1 on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2007 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2007 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2007 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2007 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 16 risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could continue to fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. 16 table of contents the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products, such as is occurring with the current economic recession. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of north carolina, texas, georgia, iowa and florida, our profitability will decrease. we are experiencing this situation with the current economic recession. moreover, infrastructure spending in 2008 was hurt by the overall weakness in the economy, which leads to lower tax revenues and state government budget deficits. further, rising construction and material prices are both constraining highway budgets. additionally, lack of access to the capital markets has precluded many state and local governments from issuing bonds that would provide financing for construction projects. in february 2009, president obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which will provide billions of dollars in new funding for transportation infrastructure. however, there will be a time delay of at least several months before congress can appropriate such funds and each state can take appropriate measures to take advantage of such funding. in addition, each state will have to approve various infrastructure projects to be funded through the new federal stimulus plan. so while management believes the federal stimulus plan will increase the company aggregates shipments in the latter half of 2009 and in 2010, we cannot be assured of the full impact of the stimulus plan. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both commercial construction and residential construction. commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit availability. the commercial construction market declined in 2008, notably from credit availability and felt most significantly starting in september 2008. also, continued weakness in the residential construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. the residential construction market remained dismal in 2008 in connection with the housing market downtown. further, the outlook reflects 17 table of contents diminished demand, which is further exacerbated by the overall weakness in the economy and the financial institutions crisis. approximately 9% of our aggregates shipments in 2008 were to the residential construction market. our aggregate products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on these projects. for example, while the current federal highway law passed in 2005 provides funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs through september 30, 2009, congress must pass an appropriations bill each year to approve spending these funds. we cannot be assured that congress will pass an appropriations bill each year to approve funding at the level authorized in the federal highway law. similarly, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. for example, we expect delays in infrastructure spending in georgia, north carolina, south carolina, and texas will continue in 2009, which will limit our business growth in those states until the level and timing of spending improves. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material, particularly by barge. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies, restrict production, and limit movement of barge traffic. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. 18 table of contents our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. acquisition opportunities may increase in the short term as large, multi-national competitors may be forced to sell assets acquired in recent transactions to generate cash to fund debt obligations. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. 19 table of contents short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. for example, in 2008, increases in prices of petroleum-based products lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.65 per diluted share when compared with 2007 prices. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price breaks, fuel efficiency, and consumption. in addition, the price of liquid asphalt is a large part of the cost of producing hot mix asphalt products and can cause road builders and commercial contractors to delay or defer work in anticipation of liquid asphalt cost changes. in 2008, liquid asphalt prices more than doubled over the prior year price, with prices in excess of $800 per ton at their peak. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. 20 table of contents we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 12.7% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 90.3% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the woodville, ohio lime plant and the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in june 2010 and august 2011, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. for example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in texas and parts of the southeastern region of the united states. in 2005 and 2006, following hurricanes katrina and rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the mississippi river system. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. in 2007, dry weather caused low water levels and resulted in reduced tonnage that could be shipped on a barge. consequently, the per ton cost of transporting material was higher than normal. in 2008 high water levels from severe flooding in iowa hurt both shipments and operations. the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. in 2007, barges were particularly scarce, as barges were being retired faster than new barges were being built. in 2005, we leased 780 additional rail cars. in 2006, we contracted to buy 50 new barges that were delivered in 2007. in 2008, we leased additional rail cars in the southwest. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. 21 table of contents our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2006, we were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our management and key employees as part of their compensation. this resulted in a reduction of our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2008 financial statements. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without economic stimulus at the federal level. 22 table of contents a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during this economic downturn we have been forced to shut down some of our facilities on a temporary basis. if demand does not improve, such shutdowns could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the shut-down time, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary shutdowns. the current credit environment has limited our ability to issue borrowings under our commercial paper program. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. interest rates on new issuances of long-term public debt in the market have recently increased, reflecting higher credit and risk premiums. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. in 2008 we issued $300 million of our senior notes and refinanced our $200 million notes due december 2008. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. in 2008, moody downgraded our long-term debt rating to baa3 from baa1 and downgraded our commercial paper rating to p-3 from p-2 with a stable outlook. in 2008, standard poor reaffirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of bbb and downgraded the outlook to negative, but left our commercial paper rating of a-2 unchanged. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the steel industry experienced a severe downturn in the second half of 2008, which is expected to continue in 2009. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages. 23 table of contents our structural composites product line has not generated any profits since its inception. our structural composites product line faces many challenges before it becomes break-even or generates a profit. we cannot ensure the future profitability of this product line. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; 24 table of contents adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; and changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed all known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company securities and exchange commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements under item 1a of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition under item 1 on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2008 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2008 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2008 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2008 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 21 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 21 table of contents 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. factors that the company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. in addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. the overall united states economy remains weak, with national debt at a record high and commercial and consumer credit availability remaining tight. while we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2010, the first year of volume growth since 2005, 2011 saw volume drop off again, as our overall aggregates shipments declined 3.8% over 2010 levels (with heritage aggregates shipments declining 3.5% over 2010 levels, as discussed in more detail below). demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could continue to fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. the recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of texas, north carolina, iowa, georgia, and south carolina, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. 22 table of contents the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. for the last three years our aggregates shipments ranged from 123 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. our aggregates volumes decreased 3.8% in 2011 after a 5.4% increase in 2010 in shipments over 2009 levels representing our first year of volume growth since 2005. our heritage aggregates shipments decreased 3.5% in 2011 over 2010. we determine our heritage aggregates volume by excluding tonnage from operations we acquired during the year that were not included in previous year operations and operations we divested during the year. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, the current uncertainty created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill has negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. there has been a reduction in many states investment in highway maintenance. in february 2009, president obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which was designed to stimulate the economy by providing over $29 billion in new funding for transportation infrastructure. however, the lack of shovel-ready projects and the substitution of stimulus funds for other projects delayed and limited the impact of this stimulus spending on the aggregates industry. at the end of 2011, only about 15% of these infrastructure funds remained, which by law must be spent in 2012. we cannot be assured of the remaining impact of the stimulus plan. weakness in the united states economy and uncertainty in long-term federal infrastructure spending hurt infrastructure spending in 2011. the federal stimulus plan is also winding down as all stimulus projects must be completed by the end of 2012. our heritage aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market decreased 5% in 2011. we remain optimistic that the demand and need for infrastructure projects support consistent growth in this market once long-term federal funding is resolved. approximately 54% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the infrastructure construction market. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit availability. we experienced a 3% decrease in heritage aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2011, with shipments to the energy sector to support natural gas drilling and exploration projects reduced in part because of lower natural gas prices. these reductions were offset in part by growth in heritage aggregates shipments to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail, which generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. we expect this component of the nonresidential construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2012. approximately 26% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the nonresidential construction market. 23 table of contents our heritage aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 4% in 2011. while the federal reserve kept the federal funds rate at 0% throughout the year, overall weakness in the u.s. economy and reduced consumer lending by banks limited the impact of this low rate. the excess supply of developed lots also stifled new housing starts and limited the more aggregates-intensive subdivision development typically seen in a residential volume recovery. although we expect moderate improvement in the residential construction market in 2012, housing starts are not expected to achieve a normalized level, estimated at 1.5 million starts nationally, until 2016, according to mcgraw hill construction. approximately 8% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the residential construction market. consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan would increase our exposure to unfavorable conditions in the residential construction market. vulcan sales and volumes in arizona, florida, and california have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a decline in residential construction. vulcan sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until there is a recovery in residential construction. shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales ( chemrock/rail ) accounted for approximately 12% of our heritage aggregates shipments and decreased slightly in 2011. three of our top ten customers in 2011 were class i railroads. we expect our chemrock/rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2012 compared to 2011. our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the most recent federal highway bill passed in 2005 provided funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs, but ended september 30, 2009. while a multi-year successor federal highway bill has not been approved, congress has extended the provisions of the current law under eight continuing resolutions through march 31, 2012. given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that congress will pass a multi-year successor federal highway bill or will continue to extend the provisions of the most recent law at the same levels. historically, states have been reluctant to commit to long-term projects while under continuing resolutions. in fact, obligations for federal highway funds are at a five-year low through the first three months of the federal fiscal year ending september 30, 2012 and $1.06 billion less than were obligated during the first three months of fiscal 2011, when the highway bill was also operating under continuing resolutions. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular 24 table of contents programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past three years. presently, the congressional budget office projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the highway trust fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner sometime during fiscal 2012 or 2013. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. nearly all states are now experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina and texas are among the states experiencing these pressures, and these states disproportionately affect our revenues and profits. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. the recent acquisitions of operations in the denver, colorado market increased the company exposure to winter weather and risk of losses in the first and fourth quarters. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral 25 table of contents reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. 26 table of contents we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in houston, texas, and our road paving businesses in shreveport, louisiana, and texarkana, arkansas. we have provided under the initial heading recent developments under item i of this annual report on form 10-k a description of our proposed business combination with vulcan. as presently proposed, we would pay the entire purchase price of the proposed business combination with vulcan with shares of our common stock, which would dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. we believe, however, the proposed business combination with vulcan would maximize long-term shareholder value. see risk factors relating to the proposed business combination with vulcan. short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to 27 table of contents hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 15.2% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio lime plant expire in august 2015 and june 2014, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, ship, or barge. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. high water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. the availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2017 and generally contain renewal 28 table of contents options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. for example, beginning in 2009, we were required under new accounting standards to determine whether instruments granted in stock-based payment transactions under our employee benefit plans were considered participating securities and included in determining our earnings per share. this resulted in a reduction of our previously-reported net earnings and decreased our previously-reported earnings per share amounts. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2011 financial statements. the federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the united states for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. we have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. 29 table of contents disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during this economic downturn we have been forced to temporarily idle some of our facilities. in 2011, the company aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the company ability to capitalize $55.9 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. if demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. in 2011, the company entered into a new multi-year credit facility and amended its accounts credit facility with its banks. it used the proceeds from the new credit facility to repay maturing obligations, prepay other obligations, fund working capital, and other general corporate purposes. in addition in 2012 it amended its leverage ratio covenant under such new credit facility and accounts credit facility to ensure that the impact of business development costs for the proposed business combination with vulcan and the seasonal working capital requirements for the newly-acquired colorado operations do not impair liquidity available under such credit facilities. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to complete the proposed business combination with vulcan or to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings 30 table of contents downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. while steelmaking increased in 2011, it is still far below levels of the past. we anticipate this weakness to continue in 2012. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best 31 table of contents interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes to fund deficits; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. 32 table of contents we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. risk factors relating to proposed business combination with vulcan we have provided under the initial heading recent developments under item i of this annual report on form 10-k a description of our proposed business combination with vulcan. under the terms of the exchange offer, if consummated, each outstanding share of vulcan common stock will be exchanged for 0.50 of a share of the company common stock (together with the associated preferred stock purchase rights). consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan presents risks that should be considered by someone purchasing or considering the purchase of our securities. some of these risks have been described in connection with the discussion of various general risks described above. other risk factors relating to our proposed business combination with vulcan are discussed below. the following discussion is not intended as a substitute for the discussion of the proposed transaction contained in our prospectus/offer to exchange used in connection with our proposed business combination with vulcan. for further information regarding the proposed business combination with vulcan, please review the prospectus/offer to exchange included in the company registration statement on form s-4 filed on december 12, 2011 with the sec (as may be amended from time to time), as well as the company other disclosures relating to the proposed business combination with vulcan. see also important additional information under item 9b of this form 10-k below. the exchange ratio of the proposed business combination with vulcan is fixed and will not be adjusted. each outstanding share of vulcan common stock will be exchanged for the right to receive 0.50 shares of our common stock (together with the associated preferred stock purchase rights) upon consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan. this exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted, including in the event of any increase in the price of our common stock or a decrease in the price of vulcan common stock. in certain circumstances, vulcan shareholders could receive more value for their shares in the proposed business combination than the value calculated pursuant to the exchange ratio on the date the offer was announced. because the proposed business combination with vulcan may not be completed until certain conditions have been satisfied or waived, a significant period of time may pass between the commencement of the offer and the time that we accept shares of vulcan common stock for exchange. 33 table of contents we have not negotiated the price or terms of the proposed business combination with vulcan with vulcan board of directors. we have not negotiated the price or terms of the proposed business combination with vulcan or its board of directors. neither vulcan nor its board of directors has approved the proposed business combination with vulcan. in response to the commencement of our offer on december 12, 2011, vulcan filed with the sec on december 22, 2011 its schedule 14d-9 reporting that vulcan board of directors had determined to recommend that vulcan shareholders reject our exchange offer and not tender their shares of vulcan common stock to us. in connection with the proposed business combination with vulcan, we have only conducted a review of vulcan publicly available information and have not had access to vulcan non-public information. therefore, we may be subject to unknown liabilities of vulcan which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations if the proposed business combination with vulcan is completed. while we are in the same industry with vulcan, to date, we have only conducted a due diligence review of vulcan publicly available information in connection with the proposed business combination with vulcan. the consummation of the offer may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of vulcan that are not publicly available. as a result, after the consummation of the offer, we may be subject to unknown liabilities of vulcan, which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. uncertainties exist in integrating our business and operations with that of vulcan, and there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the business combination will be realized. we intend, to the extent possible, to integrate vulcan operations with our operations. although we believe that the integration of our operations with that of vulcan (and the resulting benefits and synergies) will be achievable, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties integrating vulcan operations with our operations, which could result in our achieving less than the anticipated benefits and synergies of the combination and, therefore, less than the expected cost savings. additionally, there can be no assurance that the timing for realizing these benefits and synergies will be consistent with the timing we anticipate. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things: possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between vulcan and us; the complexities of integrating the business and operations of vulcan with those of our company; the retention of existing customers and attraction of new customers; the retention of key employees, and attraction of new employees, if necessary; the consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; the minimization of the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; and 34 table of contents the possibility of tax costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations of the combined company. also, our proposal is not dependent upon the retention or cooperation of vulcan senior management. there can be no assurance that there will not be some lack of cooperation on the part of vulcan senior executive management and/or its other employees which could adversely affect the integration process. the payment of cash dividends by the combined company in the future may be subject to certain limitations. the failure of the combined company to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect its share price. we intend for the combined company to pay regular dividends to shareholders at our current rate of $1.60 per share annually (equivalent to $0.80 per vulcan share annually, based on the 0.50 exchange ratio). the ability of the combined company to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, its financial condition, compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness (including vulcan indebtedness) and applicable law. in addition, if vulcan is required to offer to repurchase outstanding senior unsecured notes, its financial condition may be adversely affected and as a result the combined company could be required to reduce or eliminate its dividend. please see following consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan, the credit rating of vulcan indebtedness could be downgraded, which in certain circumstances could give rise to an obligation to redeem vulcan existing indebtedness. if the combined company reduces or eliminates its dividend, the combined company share price may be adversely affected. we must obtain governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the proposed business combination with vulcan, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the offer, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with vulcan. the proposed business combination with vulcan is conditioned on the receipt of all necessary or advisable (at our sole discretion) governmental and regulatory authorizations, consents, orders and approvals or the termination of any necessary or advisable (at our sole discretion) waiting periods, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the federal antitrust laws. if we do not receive these approvals, or do not receive them on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in our proposed offer, then we will not be obligated to accept shares of vulcan common stock for exchange in the offer. the governmental agencies from which we are seeking these approvals, or which may otherwise review the transaction, including, in particular, the ftc and the united states department of justice, have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. as a condition to their approval of the proposed transaction, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company business. these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the combination contemplated by the proposed combination. further, no assurance can be given that the required consents and approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to the offer will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the conditions to the consummation of the offer are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and 35 table of contents timing of the approvals. if we agree to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the offer, these requirements, limitations, additional costs or restrictions could adversely affect our ability to integrate the operations of the two companies or reduce the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination. this could result in a failure to complete the proposed business combination with vulcan or have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. although there is some overlap in some regions served by vulcan and us, we believe that such overlap is limited and that there would be numerous parties interested in purchasing any assets required to be divested. we expect that any asset divestitures that may be required in connection with the proposed business combination with vulcan would not present significant hurdles to completion of a transaction. the market for our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of shares pursuant to the proposed business combination with vulcan. in connection with the completion of the proposed business combination with vulcan, we estimate we will issue approximately 64,905,000 shares of our common stock. the increase in the number of shares of our common stock may lead to sales of such stock or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our common stock. if all shares of vulcan common stock are exchanged pursuant to the offer, former vulcan shareholders would own, in the aggregate, approximately 58% of the outstanding shares of the company common stock, based on the proposed exchange ratio. following consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan, the credit rating of vulcan indebtedness could be downgraded, which in certain circumstances could give rise to an obligation to redeem vulcan existing indebtedness. vulcan had approximately $2.8 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding senior unsecured notes as of september 30, 2011. we do not presently intend to redeem or refinance any of vulcan senior unsecured notes in connection with the proposed business combination with vulcan. completion of the proposed business combination with vulcan may constitute a change of control under the terms of each series of vulcan senior unsecured notes. if completion of the offer constitutes a change of control and if there is a downgrade of the credit rating of any series of vulcan senior unsecured notes by both s&amp;p and moody to a rating that, in the case of s&amp;p, is below bbb- and, in the case of moody investors service, inc., is below baa3 (in each case, regardless of the credit rating prior to the downgrade), during the period commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by vulcan of any change of control (or pending change of control) continuing until 60 days following consummation of such change of control (which period will be extended following consummation of a change of control for up to an additional 60 days for so long as either of these rating agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change), this would constitute a change of control repurchase event under the terms of the applicable notes. in the event of a change of control repurchase event with respect to any series of vulcan senior unsecured notes, vulcan would be required to offer to repurchase each holder notes of such series at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 36 table of contents we may elect to implement alternative structures to effect the proposed business combination with vulcan taking into account, among other things, any implications of the proposed transaction under vulcan senior unsecured notes. pursuant to the terms of the form merger agreement delivered to vulcan concurrently with martin marietta business combination proposal, we would have the right to require that, prior to the closing of the transaction, vulcan cooperate with us (and, as applicable, amend the merger agreement) to implement the transactions through an alternative transaction structure. under the terms of the form merger agreement, we can request that vulcan implement the transaction either (i) through a new holding company we form or (ii) as may otherwise be requested by us (so long as vulcan shareholders receive the substantially equivalent economic benefit compared to the economic benefit vulcan shareholders would have received upon consummation of the transactions under the structure contemplated by the form merger agreement). we are not currently considering any alternative structures other than a transaction through a newly formed holding company. this holding company structure would not constitute a change of control of vulcan senior unsecured notes. however, it is possible that a holding company structure may have other implications with respect to vulcan, us, and/or the combined company, including in certain circumstances potentially requiring an offer to repurchase certain of the company existing debt. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $550 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, under the terms of which a holding company or other alternative transaction structure may constitute a change of control. if completion of the offer constitutes a change of control and if there is a downgrade of the credit rating of any series of the company senior unsecured notes by s&amp;p and moody (or, in the case of the 6.60% senior notes due 2018, by at least two of fitch inc., s&amp;p and moody s) to a rating below investment grade (regardless of whether the rating prior to such downgrade was investment grade or below investment grade) prior to 60 days following consummation of the change of control (which period may be extended for so long as the rating of the notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade), and, in the case of the 6.25% senior notes due 2037, if either s&amp;p or moody publicly announces or informs the trustee in writing that such downgrade was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance relating to the change of control, we would be required to offer to repurchase each holder notes of such series at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. although no assurance can be given as to the terms or availability of refinancing capital, and no new financing commitments have been entered into as of the date of this annual report, we currently expect that any repurchase or refinancing of the company senior unsecured notes, if required, could be funded through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings under new and/or existing financing arrangements. except as described above, we do not expect that the consummation of the transactions through a newly formed holding company structure will result in any material adverse consequences relative to the transaction structure described above. if following the completion of the proposed business combination with vulcan, vulcan is obligated to offer to repurchase vulcan outstanding senior unsecured notes, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to repurchase or refinance vulcan outstanding senior unsecured notes in these circumstances. failure to repurchase the notes as required would result in an event of default under the terms of the notes, which could put vulcan in default under agreements governing its other indebtedness, including the acceleration of the payment of any borrowings thereunder, and may have an adverse effect on the value of our stock and the ability of the combined company to maintain the dividend we expect it to pay. since august 2010, the credit rating of vulcan senior unsecured notes 37 table of contents has been downgraded three times by moody and two times by s&amp;p. prior to our december 12, 2011 announcement of the proposed business combination with vulcan, both moody and s&amp;p had a negative credit outlook for vulcan. since the announcement of our proposal, moody has placed vulcan rating under review, direction uncertain and s&amp;p has placed vulcan on creditwatch positive. our offer is not conditioned on our having adequate funding to repurchase notes of vulcan or our notes in the event such repurchase obligations are triggered by the consummation of the offer or any alternative transaction structure. on december 15, 2011, vulcan entered into a new five-year credit agreement providing for a $600 million asset based lending credit facility with suntrust bank, as administrative agent, and the lenders and other parties thereto. consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan may result in a default under vulcan new $600 million credit agreement unless the requisite lenders thereunder consent to such transaction. in connection with the consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan, we expect to replace vulcan $600 million credit agreement, as well as our existing $600 million credit agreement dated march 31, 2011 and our existing $100 million accounts receivable facility dated april 21, 2009, and refinance any amounts outstanding under such credit facilities. as of december 31, 2011, approximately $385 million was outstanding under our credit facilities. no assurance can be given as to the terms or availability of refinancing capital. the combination of vulcan business with our business may result in one or more ratings organizations taking actions which may adversely affect the combined company business, financial condition and operating results, as well as the market price of our common shares. ratings with respect to financial strength are important factors in maintaining customer confidence in our company and our ability to market our products and compete with other construction materials companies. rating organizations regularly analyze the financial performance and condition of companies and will likely reevaluate our ratings following the consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan. although s&amp;p or moody may not take any formal action with respect to modifying our ratings or vulcan ratings following the announcement of the proposed transaction, following the closing of the transaction, any ratings downgrades, or the potential for ratings downgrades, could adversely affect our ability to market and distribute products and services and successfully compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company and the market value of shares of our common stock after the combination of our business with that of vulcan. additionally, if a ratings downgrade were to occur in connection with the proposed transaction, or we fail to maintain an investment grade rating, we could experience higher borrowing costs in the future and more restrictive covenants which would reduce profitability and diminish operational flexibility. the proposed business combination with vulcan will trigger certain provisions contained in our employee benefit plans or agreements that will require us to make change of control payments or permit a counter-party to an agreement with us to terminate that agreement. in addition, the proposed business combination with vulcan could trigger certain provisions contained in vulcan employee benefit plans or agreements that could require vulcan to make change in control payments or permit a counter-party to an agreement with vulcan to terminate that agreement. 38 table of contents certain of our employee benefit plans and agreements have change of control provisions that will be triggered with respect to our executive officers in connection with the proposed business combination with vulcan. following consummation of the second-step merger with vulcan following the offer, any vesting conditions applicable to any restricted stock units and any incentive stock plan units payable in shares of our common stock granted pursuant to our stock plans will lapse, and any unvested options to acquire our common stock will become vested. this will impact awards previously granted to our executive officers. our non-employee directors do not hold any unvested equity awards. we have entered into employment protection agreements with each of the executive officers, pursuant to which each executive officer would receive certain severance payments and an enhanced benefit under the martin marietta supplemental benefit plan ( serp ) upon certain terminations of employment following a change of control (as defined in the agreements and the serp). pursuant to the agreements, as originally executed, the executive would be entitled to receive the payments and benefits described below if, within the two-year period following a change of control, the executive was terminated other than for cause (as defined in the agreements) or disability (as defined in the agreements), or the executive terminated his or her employment with good reason (as defined in the agreements) or if the executive terminated his or her employment for any reason during the 30-day period following the second anniversary of a change of control. however, on december 15, 2011, we entered into a letter agreement with each such executive pursuant to which the executive agreed to waive his or her right to receive any compensation or benefits to which he or she would be entitled under the agreements, and any enhanced change of control benefits under the serp, if the executive officer terminates his or her employment without good reason during the 30-day period following the second anniversary of the consummation of the proposed business combination with vulcan (including as such proposed transaction may be modified). except with respect to the waiver of such rights, the executive officers remain entitled to their rights under the employment protection agreements and the serp in circumstances involving a change of control. if a qualifying termination occurs within two years following a change of control, we are obligated to pay the executive, in a lump sum, an amount equal to three times the sum of the executive base salary, annual bonus, and perquisites. the executive will also receive a prorated portion of his or her target annual bonus (as defined in the agreements). in addition, for three years following termination of employment, we must provide the executive with welfare benefits that are generally as favorable as those the executive enjoyed prior to the change of control. we must also pay to the executive a lump sum equal to the sum of (i) the matching contributions that we would have made to the martin marietta performance sharing plan on behalf of the executive had the executive remained an employee for three years following termination of employment assuming the executive contributed the maximum amount of elective deferrals permissible and (ii) the additional amount the executive would have received as a benefit under the martin marietta pension plan for salaried employees (the retirement plan ) had the executive remained an employee for three years following termination of employment. we must also provide the executive with the same retiree medical benefits that were in effect for retirees immediately prior to the change of control and the executive shall be treated as if he or she had attained age 55 prior to termination of employment. furthermore, the agreements provide for gross up payments to compensate the executives for any golden parachute excise taxes imposed under the internal revenue code if the total payments or distributions to be made to the executive exceed the maximum dollar amount that would be payable to the executive without any excise tax by more than $50,000. each executive officer also participates in the serp which provides that upon a termination of the executive employment that qualifies for severance benefits 39 table of contents under the executive employment protection agreement, for purposes of determining the serp benefit, the benefit that would have been paid under the retirement plan (but for the limitations of sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the internal revenue code) shall be determined by taking into account (i) the amount of the executive lump sum payment under such executive employment protection agreement, and (ii) three additional years of credited service. such additional years of credited service shall be taken into account for vesting purposes under the serp. in addition, there shall be no reduction for benefit commencement prior to age 65 and as early as age 55 on the net benefit (after reduction for the payment under the retirement plan) payable under the serp. the lump sum payment under the employment protection agreement shall be taken into account by dividing the amount of the lump sum payment by three and by treating the participant as having additional pensionable earnings, for the purpose of determining the participant final-average pensionable earnings, equal to such amount for a number of three additional calendar years. moreover, such additional calendar years shall extend the number of calendar years taken into account in determining final-average pensionable earnings. the executive shall receive a cash lump sum payment as of his or her earliest retirement date (age 55 or current age if older) based on the mortality table determined as of the executive date of termination of employment and based on an interest rate of 0.0%. certain of vulcan employee benefit plans or agreements contain change in control clauses providing for compensation to be granted to certain members of vulcan senior management either upon a change in control, or if following a change in control, vulcan terminates the employment relationship between vulcan and these employees, or if these employees terminate the employment relationship for good reason (as defined in the applicable plan or agreement). if successful, the proposed business combination with vulcan could constitute a change in control of vulcan, thereby giving rise to potential change in control payments. because we have not had the opportunity to review vulcan non-public information in connection with the offer, there may be other agreements that require payments or permit a counter-party to terminate an agreement because the proposed business combination with vulcan would cause a default or violate an anti-assignment, change in control or similar clause. if this happens, we may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement. we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. depending on the importance of a terminated agreement to vulcan business, failure to replace that agreement on similar terms or at all may increase the costs to us of operating vulcan business or prevent us from operating part or all of vulcan business. the impact of the proposed business combination with vulcan is not reflected in our financial statements and could affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. our financial statements, management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and our 2012 outlook included in the 2011 annual report assume the company on a stand-alone basis and do not give effect to the potential impact of the proposed business combination with vulcan. our future performance could be affected by the proposed business combination with vulcan, including as a result of the business development costs that may be incurred in connection therewith (regardless of whether we are successful in completing the proposed transaction). if the proposed business combination with vulcan is completed, our future financial statements are expected to be significantly different from the financial statements included in the 2011 annual report. 40 table of contents * * * * * * * * * * * * * * investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed all known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company sec filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading risk factors and forward-looking statements under item 1a of this form 10-k, the discussion of competition under item 1 on form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2011 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2011 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2011 annual report. the company also encourages investors to review its disclosures with respect to its proposed business combination with vulcan, including the risks and other factors described under the headings risk factors and forward-looking statements in the prospectus/offer to exchange included in the company registration statement on form s-4 filed with the sec on december 12, 2011 (as may be amended from time to time). quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2011 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 20 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof 20 table of contents based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of competition under item 1 of this form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2012 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2012 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2012 annual report. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. the overall united states economy began showing signs of stability during 2012, but economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth. while we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2012, compared with 2011, demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. the recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states (based on net sales by state of destination) of texas, north carolina, iowa, colorado, and georgia, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. for the last three years our aggregates shipments ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. our aggregates volumes increased 2.6% in 2012 after decreasing 3.8% in 2011. our heritage aggregates shipments increased 2.9% in 2012 over 21 table of contents 2011. we determine our heritage aggregates volume by excluding tonnage from operations we acquired during the year that were not included in previous year operations and excluding operations we divested during the year. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, during 2012 the uncertainty created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. this uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction in many states investment in highway maintenance. in july 2012, the president signed into law the successor federal highway bill known as map-21, which was designed to maintain highway spending at current annual levels of approximately $40 billion in funding for transportation infrastructure through fiscal 2014. map-21 also greatly expands tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. while the enactment of map-21 resulted in an increase in infrastructure spending during the fourth quarter of 2012, we cannot be assured of the full impact of map-21. while tifia funding should greatly boost state road construction programs well above their current construction budgets, we cannot be assured of the full impact of tifia funding. nevertheless, we believe that the enactment of map-21, along with the actions of some of our key states to use various funding alternatives to support important infrastructure jobs, should lead to increased infrastructure spending in 2013 and later years. we cannot be assured, however, of the impact of congressional debate on federal funding of infrastructure spending and/or possible congressional action that might impact map-21 and/or tifia provisions. weakness in the united states economy and uncertainty in long-term federal infrastructure spending until the passage of map-21 hurt infrastructure spending in 2012. while the overall economy began showing signs of stability in 2012, economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth. infrastructure spending improved in the fourth quarter of 2012 with the passage of map-21. our heritage aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market were flat in 2012 after decreasing 5% in 2011. we remain optimistic that the demand and need for infrastructure projects support consistent growth in this market now that long-term federal funding is resolved through 2014. in 2012, 51% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. within the construction industry, we sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. we experienced a 10% increase in heritage aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2012, with increased shipments to the energy sector compared with 2011, driven by lower natural gas prices and the ongoing shale field activity at the eagle ford shale field in south texas. this increase was accompanied by growth in heritage aggregates shipments in certain of our geographic markets to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail, which generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. we expect this component of the nonresidential construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2013. in 2012, 30% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the nonresidential construction market. 22 table of contents our heritage aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 14% in 2012. the u.s. census reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2012 increased 17%. housing strength varies considerably in different areas of the country. we saw relative strength in some of our markets, particularly texas and colorado. while this trend is encouraging, housing starts are still below the historical annual average of 1.5 million starts. the u.s. census estimated 780,000 housing units were started in 2012. the recovery in housing is expected to continue in 2013, with substantial expansion during the second half of the year. according to mcgraw hill construction, by 2015, housing starts are estimated to be 1 million per year, bringing the level of construction closer to the demographic demand for single-family housing. in 2012, 8% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market. shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales ( chemrock/rail ) accounted for 11% of our heritage aggregates shipments and decreased 9% in 2012. this reduction was principally due to the comparison with 2011, when ballast shipments increased to repair rail lines after the missouri river flooding in the midwestern united states, and a decline in both current coal traffic on railroads as well as railroad maintenance. while ballast shipments were lower compared with 2011, volumes for 2012 were in line with the five-year historical average. three of our top ten customers in 2012 were class i railroads. we expect our chemrock/rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2013 compared to 2012. our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the most recent federal highway bill passed in 2012, map-21, provided annual funding at current levels of approximately $40 billion through september 30, 2014, with modest increases to reflect projected inflation. map-21 also greatly expands tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. map-21 is not subject to potential sequestration under current federal law. tifia is also not subject to federal debt ceiling limits. nevertheless, given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that congress will not take action that might impact map-21 or tifia or that congress will pass a successor federal highway bill or will extend the provisions of the current bill when it expires in 2014. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific 23 table of contents programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past three years. presently, the congressional budget office projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the highway trust fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner sometime during fiscal 2015. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. many states have been experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina is among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. the situation is improving, however. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. operations in the denver, colorado area increase the company exposure to winter weather and risk of losses in the first and fourth quarters. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to 24 table of contents transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold some underperforming and other non-strategic assets. 25 table of contents we have doubled our exposure to vertically-integrated businesses in the last year. our acquisitions in texas and colorado in december of 2011 more than doubled our exposure to downstream businesses. for 2012, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for about 20% of the net sales of our aggregates business, up from 8% in 2011. we obtain lower margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) from these operations as compared with our aggregates product line. therefore, as we expand these operations, our gross margins are likely to be adversely affected. the mix of vertically-integrated operations lowered the gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business by about 260 basis points in 2012. the gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our vertically-integrated operations. short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. in 2012, while the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 5% higher compared to 2011, this was offset by a decline of 25% from 2011 on our average cost for natural gas. the specialty products business has fixed price agreements for the supply of coal and about 25% of its natural gas needs in 2013. similarly our vertically-integrated operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mix concrete, respectively. these raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. the financial results of our vertically-integrated operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. 2012 saw continued volatility in the costs for these raw materials. road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. our vertically-integrated operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. in some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. if we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. in our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors 26 table of contents beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. these same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 12.8% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio lime plant expire in august 2015 and june 2014, respectively. 27 table of contents disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. the availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. when we sold our river district operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. as a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the mississippi river. we still distribute some of our product by barge along rivers in west virginia. we may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about 28 table of contents our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in note a of our 2012 financial statements. the federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the united states for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. we have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. the current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during the economic downturn we have temporarily idled some of our facilities. in 2012, the company aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the company ability to capitalize $50.9 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. if demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it 29 table of contents elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. while steelmaking increased in 2012, it is still far below levels of the past. we anticipate this weakness to continue in 2013. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our specialty products business now runs at capacity so unexpected changes could affect its earnings. because our specialty products business currently runs at capacity, any unplanned changes in costs or realignment of customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment of our business. 30 table of contents our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not 31 table of contents approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction, to fund deficits; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2012 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 21 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 21 table of contents for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of competition under item 1 of this form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2013 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2013 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2013 annual report. the company also encourages investors to review its disclosures with respect to its proposed business combination with txi, including the risks and other factors that will be described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the registration statement on form s-4 (as may be amended from time to time) that the company intends to file with the sec when it becomes available. our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. the current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. the overall united states economy moved at a tepid pace during 2013. economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth during the year. demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. during the past few years, the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. the recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our aggregates business (based on net sales by state of destination) of texas, north carolina, colorado, iowa, and georgia, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. 22 table of contents the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. for the last four years, our aggregates shipments ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. during 2013 our overall aggregates shipments were relatively flat compared with 2012 levels. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, during 2013 the uncertainty created by the federal government shutdown and the lack of a successor federal highway bill negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. this uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction in many states investment in highway maintenance. in july 2012, the president signed into law the successor federal highway bill known as map-21, which was designed to maintain highway spending at current annual levels of approximately $40 billion in funding for transportation infrastructure through fiscal 2014. map-21 also greatly expands tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. while the enactment of map-21 resulted in an increase in infrastructure spending for a period of time, map-21 expires on september 30, 2014. we are not clear when or in what form there might be a successor bill to map-21. the recent federal government shutdown and the general uncertainty about governmental spending in general have also reduced confidence in long-term funding for transportation beyond the september 2014 expiration of map-21. this uncertainty has caused some states and cities to cancel or defer large scale, long-term construction projects, which hurt infrastructure spending in 2013. our aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market decreased 7% in 2013 compared with 2012 after being flat in 2012 compared with 2011. we believe that the demand and need for infrastructure projects will support consistent growth in this market once long-term federal funding is resolved beyond 2014. in 2013, 45% of our aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. within the construction industry, we also sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. we experienced an 8% increase in aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2013, with increased aggregates shipments in certain of our geographic markets to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail. during 2013, a strengthened residential market precipitated nonresidential construction activities to serve increased populations. specifically, the commercial component of nonresidential construction generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. we expect continued stable aggregate shipments to the heavy industry component of nonresidential, predominantly the energy sector. shale field activity remains strong, particularly at the eagle ford shale field in south texas and the marcellus field in pennsylvania. we should benefit from shale energy investments, particularly as additional shale-related development moves into downstream projects, such as public infrastructure and industrial building. in 2013, 31% of our aggregates shipments were to the nonresidential construction market. we expect the nonresidential construction market to increase notably in 2014. 23 table of contents our aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 11% in 2013. housing strength varies considerably in different areas of the country. we saw significant residential growth in our key geographic markets, including colorado, florida, georgia, and north carolina. the u.s. census bureau reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2013 increased 18%, helped by further gains in multi-family housing and a strengthening single-family market. furthermore, housing permits and housing starts, key indicators for residential construction activity, continue to show year-over-year improvement, although starts are still below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million starts. the u.s. census bureau estimated 923,000 housing units were started in 2013, up 18.3%, with the rate of housing starts significantly exceeding completions. the upward trend is expected to continue in 2014, with substantial expansion during the second half of the year. according to mcgraw hill construction, for the first time since 2007, total housing starts are estimated to exceed 1 million units in 2014, bringing the level of construction closer to the demographic demand for single-family housing. in 2013, 14% of our aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market. shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high-calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (collectively chemrock/rail ) accounted for 10% of our aggregates shipments and decreased 1% in 2013. this reduction was principally due to a decrease in agricultural lime shipments in 2013 because of wet weather. ballast shipments were flat in 2013 compared with 2012 levels. our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. in 2013, congress provided virtually no increase in federal transportation investment for highway, transit, and runway construction, which negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the most recent federal highway bill passed in 2012, map-21, provides annual funding at current levels of approximately $40 billion through september 30, 2014, with modest increases to reflect projected inflation. map-21 also greatly expands tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $1 billion in fiscal 2014. map-21 is not subject to potential sequestration under current federal law. tifia is also not subject to federal debt ceiling limits. however, authorized transfers from the general fund to the highway trust fund are subject to potential sequestration. given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that congress will not take action that might impact map-21 or tifia or that congress will pass a successor federal highway bill or will extend the provisions of the current bill when it expires in 2014. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds 24 table of contents are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past several years. based on current spending and revenue trends, the u.s. department of transportation projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the highway trust fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner before september 30, 2014, the same time map-21 expires. therefore, timely congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the highway trust fund and to enact a longer-term federal highway bill. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. many states have experienced state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina was among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. most state budgets, including north carolina, began to improve in 2013 as increased tax revenues helped states resolve budget deficits. states have also taken on a larger role in funding sustained infrastructure investment. we anticipate further growth in state-level funding initiatives, such as bond issues, toll roads, and special purpose taxes, as states address infrastructure needs, particularly in periods of federal funding uncertainty. nevertheless, it is a continuing risk to our business that sufficient funding from federal, state, and local sources will not be available to address infrastructure needs. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the production and shipment levels for the company aggregates business, including all of its vertically-integrated operations, vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. 25 table of contents our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. while the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. 26 table of contents we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. we have sold some underperforming and other non-strategic assets. we have provided under the initial heading recent developments under item i of this form 10-k a description of our proposed business combination with txi. the merger agreement with txi requires us to pay, subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, the entire purchase price in the proposed business combination with txi with shares of our common stock, which would dilute the ownership interests of our current shareholders. see risk factors relating to the proposed business combination with txi for certain of the risks and uncertainties related to our proposed business combination with txi. vertically-integrated businesses have lower profit margins and can be more volatile. for 2013, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for about 22% of the net sales of our aggregates business, up from 20% in 2012 and 8% in 2011. these businesses typically provide lower profit margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and minimal barriers to entry. therefore, as we expand these operations, our gross margins are likely to be adversely affected. the mix of vertically-integrated operations lowered the gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business by 260 basis points in 2013. the gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our vertically-integrated operations. short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. in 2012, while the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 5% higher compared to 2011, this was offset by a decline of 25% from 2011 on our average cost for natural gas. this trend reversed in 2013, when the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower compared to 2012, but the average cost of natural gas increased 18% from 2012. the specialty products business has fixed price agreements for the supply of a portion of its coal and natural gas needs in 2014. 27 table of contents similarly our vertically-integrated operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mix concrete, respectively. these raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. the financial results of our vertically-integrated operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. 2012 saw continued volatility in the costs for these raw materials. for 2013, however, we saw lower prices for these raw materials than 2012. road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. our vertically-integrated operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. in some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. if we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. in our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. these same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. these risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. 28 table of contents these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 16.3% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio lime plant expire in august 2015 and june 2014, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. the availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products. if owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. when we sold our river district operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. as a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the mississippi river. we still distribute some of 29 table of contents our product by barge along rivers in west virginia. we may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we urge you to read about our accounting policies in note a of our 2013 financial statements. the federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the united states for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. we have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 , and other related rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance. reports from the public company accounting oversight board ( pcaob ) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. the company costs to respond to these additional requirements and exposure to adverse findings by the pcaob of the work performed may increase as to internal controls. 30 table of contents we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. we have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the company business. demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels beyond the september 2014 expiration of map-21. further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues to be eroded by economic uncertainty. a recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. during the economic downturn, we have temporarily idled some of our facilities. in 2013, the company aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the company ability to capitalize $50.7 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. if demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. the timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. during the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. if practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. when temporarily idled locations reopen, we may incur additional repair costs for a temporary period. nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. 31 table of contents we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. on january 28, 2014, moody investors service announced it was placing our credit ratings under review for downgrade as a result of our announcement of the proposed business combination with txi. similarly, on the same day standard &amp; poor ratings services placed our credit ratings on their creditwatch with negative implications because of the proposed transaction. on the other hand, on january 29, 2014, fitch ratings, after reviewing the proposed transaction, reaffirmed our credit rating outlook as stable. while we do not believe that a review by moody or standard &amp; poor should result in a reduction of our credit ratings, there is no guarantee of such outcome. our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. the specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our specialty products business now runs at capacity so unexpected changes could affect its earnings. because our specialty products business essentially runs at capacity, any unplanned changes in costs or customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment of our business. our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; 32 table of contents our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction, to fund deficits; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; 33 table of contents the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. risk factors relating to proposed business combination with txi we have provided under the initial heading recent developments under item i of this annual report on form 10-k a description of our proposed business combination with txi. the proposed business combination with txi presents risks and uncertainties that should be considered by someone purchasing or considering the purchase of our securities. some of these risks have been described in connection with the discussion of various general risks described above. other risk factors relating to our proposed business combination with txi are discussed below. the following discussion is not intended as a substitute for the discussion of the proposed transaction contained in our joint proxy statement/prospectus used in connection with our proposed business combination with txi. for further information regarding the proposed business combination with txi, including additional risks and uncertainties related thereto, please review the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on form s-4 that the company intends to file with the sec (as may be amended from time to time), as well as the company other disclosures relating to the proposed business combination with txi, when they become available. see also important additional information under item 9b of this form 10-k below. 34 table of contents the proposed business combination with txi is subject to approval by the company shareholders and txi stockholders and our ability to complete the proposed business combination with txi is subject to the receipt of antitrust clearance from governmental entities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or txi or cause us to abandon the proposed business combination with txi. in order for the proposed business combination with txi to be completed, txi stockholders must approve the adoption of the merger agreement and the company shareholders must approve the issuance of the company common stock to txi stockholders in connection with the merger. in addition, we are unable to complete the proposed business combination with txi until after the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, expires or is terminated and certain other conditions in the merger agreement are satisfied, or if legally permitted, waived. in deciding whether to terminate the antitrust waiting period or allow it to expire, the antitrust division of the department of justice (the doj ), which is reviewing the proposed business combination with txi, will consider the effect of the proposed business combination with txi on competition within the relevant markets. the doj may seek a court order enjoining the proposed business combination with txi, or may seek an agreement from us imposing certain requirements or obligations as conditions for not seeking an injunction or otherwise challenging the proposed business combination with txi and allowing the expiration of the antitrust waiting period. the merger agreement requires us to accept certain conditions from regulators that could adversely impact the company without us having the right to refuse to close the proposed business combination with txi on the basis of those regulatory conditions. we can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary antitrust clearance and that any required conditions will not have a material adverse effect on us following the proposed business combination with txi. in addition, we can provide no assurance that the regulatory review process or the regulatory conditions will not result in a delay or the abandonment of the proposed business combination with txi. failure to complete the proposed business combination with txi could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. if the proposed business combination with txi is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including: being required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $25 million or $140 million to txi; having to pay certain costs relating to the proposed business combination with txi, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor, filing, printing and mailing fees; under the merger agreement, being subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain business strategies; and 35 table of contents the focus of our management on the proposed business combination with txi instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to the company; in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having the proposed business combination with txi completed. in addition, if the proposed business combination with txi is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our respective customers and employees. we could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the proposed business combination with txi or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. if the proposed business combination with txi is not completed, we can provide no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. any delay in completing the proposed business combination with txi may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits from the transaction. in addition to the required regulatory clearance and the shareholder and stockholder approvals described above, the proposed business combination with txi is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay, or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. we cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the proposed business combination with txi for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. any delay in completing the proposed business combination with txi could cause us not to realize some or all of the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the proposed business combination with txi is successfully completed within its expected time frame. the pendency of, and uncertainties associated with, the proposed business combination with txi could adversely affect our business and operations. in connection with the pending proposed business combination with txi, some customers, suppliers, and other entities with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings, and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the proposed business combination with txi is completed. in addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the company following the closing of the proposed business combination with txi, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the proposed business combination with txi. no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees of the company or, following the closing of the proposed business combination with txi, txi. the proposed business combination with txi will involve substantial costs. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses relating directly to the proposed business combination with txi, including debt refinancing costs, costs relating to change in control agreements at txi, fees and expenses payable to financial advisors, other professional fees and expenses, insurance premium costs, fees and costs relating to regulatory filings and notices, sec filing fees, printing and mailing costs and other transaction-related costs, fees and 36 table of contents expenses. in addition, we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of txi with those of the company. while we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings and revenue synergies related to the integration of the businesses following the completion of the proposed business combination with txi. these integration expenses likely will result in our taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the proposed business combination with txi, but the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. following the proposed business combination with txi, we may be unable to integrate the company and txi successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with txi. the proposed business combination with txi involves the combination of two companies which currently operate as independent public companies. we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations. we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with txi if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: the inability to successfully combine the businesses of the company and txi in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed business combination with txi, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with txi not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the company or txi deciding not to do business with the company; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; integrating personnel from the company and txi; creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the proposed business combination with txi; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the company and txi as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the proposed business combination with txi and integrating the company and txi operations. 37 table of contents in addition, we and txi have operated and, until the completion of the proposed business combination with txi, will continue to operate, independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in the diversion of each company management attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with txi, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. the market price of our common stock may decline in the future as a result of the proposed business combination with txi. the market price of our common stock may decline in the future as a result of the proposed business combination with txi for a number of reasons, including the unsuccessful integration of the company and txi (including for the reasons set forth in the preceding risk factor) or our failure to achieve the perceived benefits of the proposed business combination with txi, including financial results, as rapidly as or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts. these factors are, to some extent, beyond our control. the proposed business combination with txi may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. we currently anticipate that the proposed business combination with txi will be accretive to earnings per share in 2014, assuming refinancing of txi outstanding debt at or around the closing of the proposed business combination with txi and excluding one-time costs. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. we could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the proposed business combination with txi. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the proposed business combination with txi and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the proposed business combination with txi. following the proposed business combination with txi, the size of the business of the company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either the company or txi current businesses. in addition, we may continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions or other strategic transactions. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage our expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. there can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected economies of scale, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits currently anticipated from the proposed business combination with txi or anticipated from any additional acquisitions or strategic transactions. 38 table of contents our current shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the company after the closing of the proposed business combination with txi and will exercise less influence over the company management. our current shareholders currently have the right to vote in the election of our board of directors and other matters affecting the company. immediately after the proposed business combination with txi is completed, it is expected that our current shareholders will own approximately 69% of our common stock and current txi stockholders will own approximately 31% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. as a result of the proposed business combination with txi, our current shareholders will have less influence on our management and policies than they now have. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2013 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 23 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of competition under item 1 of this form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2014 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2014 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2014 annual report. our business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. economic and political uncertainty can impede growth in the markets in which we operate. demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if an economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may also hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit may limit the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales states, from time-to-time, stop or slow bidding projects in their transportation departments. 23 table of contents we sell most of our aggregate products, our primary business, and our cement products, to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our businesses depend on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates and cement products. during the past few years, the overall economy was hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. construction spending was affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our products. the recent economic recession was an example, and our business was hurt. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. while our business operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our aggregates business (based on net sales by state of destination) of texas, colorado, north carolina, iowa, and georgia, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. the historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. recent years, however, have shown a turnaround in this trend. for the last four years, our aggregates shipments ranged from 122 million tons to 146 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. during 2014 our heritage aggregates shipments showed 7.5% improvement compared with 2013 levels, after being relatively flat the prior year. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, during 2014 the unprecedented uncertainty on both the timing and amount of future long-term federal infrastructure funding negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. this uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction in some states investment in highway maintenance. other states, however, stepped up to play an expanding role in infrastructure spending, with the total value of public infrastructure spending increasing slightly in 2014, despite the uncertainty in long-term federal funding. in july 2012, the president signed into law the successor federal highway bill known as map-21, which was designed to maintain highway spending at current annual levels of approximately $40 billion in funding for transportation infrastructure through fiscal 2014. map-21 also greatly expanded tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects. while the enactment of map-21 resulted in an increase in infrastructure spending for a period of time, map-21 expired by its terms on september 30, 2014. however, as congress continues to deliberate a successor bill, the provisions of map-21 have been extended through may 31, 2015. additionally, congress authorized a $10.8 billion general fund transfer to the highway trust fund to maintain its solvency. we are not clear when or in what form there might be a successor bill to map-21. the measures to extend map-21 and add solvency to the highway trust fund have not completely alleviated the reluctance by some states and municipalities to commit to large-scale, multi-year infrastructure projects supported by federal aid. during the recent extended period of uncertainty in the level of federal funding, some states have secured alternative funding sources, including texas, whose voters in 2014 approved use of the state oil and gas production tax collections for annual disbursements to the state highway fund. supported by state spending programs, our heritage aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market increased 6% in 2014 compared to 2013, as compared to a decrease of 7% in 2013 compared with 2012. 24 table of contents we believe that the demand and need for infrastructure projects will support consistent growth in this market once long-term federal funding is resolved beyond 2015. in 2014, 44% of our aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. within the construction industry, we also sell our aggregates and cement products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. we experienced a 9% increase in aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2014, with growth notable in the energy-related shipments, which benefitted from shale energy projects, principally in south texas, as well as energy-related industrial activity. additionally, increased aggregates shipments to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail, increased in certain of our geographic markets in colorado, georgia, north carolina, and texas. during 2014, a strengthened residential market precipitated nonresidential construction activities to serve increased populations. recently, the rate of growth in residential construction has slowed, but the nonresidential construction market continues to gain momentum. this evolution is in line with expectations, as the commercial component of nonresidential construction generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. with the recent decline in global oil prices, we are uncertain the impact this decline will have on the current strong texas economy. the dodge momentum index, a 12-month leading indicator of construction spending for nonresidential building compiled by mcgraw hill construction, reached 128.7 in december 2014, an increase of 4% compared to prior month and an increase of 9% compared to prior year. in 2014, 32% of our aggregates shipments were to the nonresidential construction market. our aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 12% in 2014. housing strength varies considerably in different areas of the country. we saw significant residential growth in our key geographic markets, including florida, georgia, north carolina, and texas. the u.s. census bureau reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2014 increased 5%. furthermore, housing starts, a key indicator for residential construction activity, continues to show year-over-year improvement, although starts are still below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million units. for 2014, annual housing starts were up 3% to an estimated 1,004,000, as reported by the united states census bureau, and the rate of housing starts continues to exceed completions. this trend is expected to continue in 2015. in 2014, 14% of our aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market. shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high-calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (collectively chemrock/rail ) accounted for 10% of our aggregates shipments and increased 4% in 2014reflecting growth in non-construction, specifically landscaping and backfill. shipments of aggregates-related downstream products typically follow construction aggregates trends. the cement business was acquired from txi on july 1, 2014. the net sales of $209.6 million for the second half of 2014 reflected the company leading position in the texas market. our business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates and cement products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. so our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. the 25 table of contents year 2014 was another year of unprecedented uncertainty as it related to both the timing and amount of future long-term federal infrastructure funding, which negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. despite the uncertainty in long-term funding levels, the total value of united states overall public-works spending increased slightly in 2014, which demonstrates the commitment of states to address the underlying demand for infrastructure investment. however, infrastructure investment varies by market and was strongest in the western united states in 2014. we cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the most recent federal highway bill passed in 2012, map-21, provided annual funding at current levels of approximately $40 billion through september 30, 2014, when it expired by its own terms. map-21 also greatly expands tifia funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $1 billion in fiscal 2014. map-21 is not subject to potential sequestration under current federal law. tifia is also not subject to federal debt ceiling limits. however, authorized transfers from the general fund to the highway trust fund are subject to potential sequestration. in 2014, as congress continued to deliberate a successor bill to map-21, the provisions of map-21 were extended to may 31, 2015. additionally, congress authorized a $10.8 billion general fund transfer to the highway trust fund to maintain its solvency. given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that congress will pass a successor federal highway bill or will extend the provisions of the current bill when they expire on may 31, 2015. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past several years. according to the congressional budget office, current revenues of approximately $34 billion are falling short of the current annual expenditure level of $41 billion. therefore, timely congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the highway trust fund and to enact a longer-term federal highway bill. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. we also cannot be assured of the impact of the recent sharp reduction in gasoline prices on the levels of highway user taxes that might be collected in the future and the corresponding levels of funding to the highway trust fund. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. many states have experienced state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina was among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. most state budgets, including north carolina, began to improve in 2013 and 2014 as increased tax revenues helped states resolve budget deficits. states have also taken on a larger role in funding sustained infrastructure investment. for example, the texas voters in 2014 approved use of the state oil and gas production tax collections for annual disbursements to the state highway fund. we anticipate further growth in state-level funding initiatives, such as bond issues, toll roads, and special purpose taxes, as states address infrastructure needs, particularly in periods of federal funding uncertainty. in 26 table of contents the november 2014 elections, voters approved 66% of transportation initiatives. nevertheless, it is a continuing risk to our business that sufficient funding from federal, state, and local sources will not be available to address infrastructure needs. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather . since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the production and shipment levels for the company aggregates business, including all of its aggregates-related downstream operations, vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other 27 table of contents chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as other examples, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products and our cement business may compete with international competitors who are importing product to the united states with lower production and regulatory costs. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire, like our recent acquisition of txi. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. for example, we used our common stock in our recent acquisition of txi. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. we have acquired many companies since 1995. some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. for example, we have only begun the process of integrating the operations of txi, as discussed below. we have sold some underperforming and other non-strategic assets, such as underperforming road paving operations in arkansas and east texas, which were sold in 2014. our integration of the acquisition of txi may not be as successful as we hope. we have a successful history of business combinations and integration of these businesses into our heritage operations. we acquired txi in july 2014 and are continuing the integration of txi ready mixed concrete and cement operations. we integrated txi aggregates operations into our disciplined cost structure during the last half of 2014. we expect this continued integration to be successful in order for us to achieve the synergies, cost savings, and operating efficiencies we have forecast from the txi acquisition. however, it is a risk factor that we will not be able to achieve such integration in a successful manner or on the time schedule we have projected or in a way that will achieve the level of synergies, cost savings, or operating efficiencies we have forecast from the txi acquisition. the acquisition of txi involved the combination of two companies which previously operated as independent public companies. we have devoted significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations. as noted, we have integrated to date txi aggregates operations and are in the process of fully integrating txi ready mixed concrete and cement operations later this year. we believe we will be successful in this integration process. nevertheless, we may fail to realize some of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition with txi if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: the inability to successfully combine the remaining operations in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed acquisition with txi, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition with txi not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either the company or former customers of txi deciding not to do business with the company; 28 table of contents complexities associated with managing the combined operations; integrating personnel; creation of uniform standards, internal controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with integrating the remaining operations; and performance shortfalls at business units as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the remaining integration of the operations. aggregates-related downstream businesses have lower profit margins and can be more volatile. for 2014, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for 30% of the net sales of our aggregates business, up from 8% in 2011. these businesses typically provide lower profit margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and lower barriers to entry. therefore, as we expand these operations, our overall gross margin is likely to be adversely affected. we saw this impact our gross margins in recent years. however, in 2014, heritage aggregates-related downstream operations gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) increased 450 basis points, reflecting increased ready mixed concrete volumes and pricing as well as higher asphalt shipments. the overall gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our aggregates-related downstream operations. short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. for example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. we do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. in 2012, while the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 5% higher compared to 2011, this was offset by a decline of 25% from 2011 on our average cost for natural gas. this trend reversed in 2013, when the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower compared to 2012, but the average cost of natural gas increased 18% from 2012. similarly, in 2014 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 8% lower compared to 2013, but the average cost of natural gas increased 24% from 2013. diesel fuel, which averaged $2.82 per gallon in 2014 and 29 table of contents $2.98 per gallon in 2013, represents the single largest component of energy costs for our aggregates business. diesel fuel prices declined rapidly during december 2014, ending the year at a per gallon price that was 26% below the 2014 average. the magnesia specialties business has fixed price agreements for the supply of a portion of its coal and natural gas needs. the cement business has fixed price agreements for the supply of coal. cement production requires large amounts of energy, including electricity and fossil fuels. energy costs represent approximately 31% of the production costs of our cement business. therefore, the cost of energy is one of our largest expenses. prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control and can be quite volatile. price increases that we are unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect us. accordingly, volatility in energy costs can adversely affect the financial results of our cement business. profitability of the cement business is also subject to kiln maintenance, which requires the plant to be shut down for a period of time as repairs are made. in 2014, the cement business incurred shutdown costs of $13.3 million during the second half of the year. similarly our aggregates-related downstream operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. these raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. the financial results of our aggregates-related downstream operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. we generally see frequent volatility in the costs for these raw materials. for 2014, we saw higher prices for these raw materials than 2013. liquid asphalt prices may not always follow other energy products (e.g., oil or diesel fuel) because of complexities in the refining process which converts a barrel of oil into other fuels and petrochemical products. cement is a commodity sensitive to supply and price volatility. cement is a commodity, and competition is often based mainly on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. prices change a lot in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions, which we cannot control. when cement producers increase production capacity or more cement is imported into the market, an oversupply of cement in the market may occur if supply exceeds demand. in that case cement prices generally fall. we cannot be assured that prices for our cement products sold will not decline in the future or that such decline will not have a material adverse effect on our cement business. unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. this equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damage during accidents. in addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. our cement operations in california are also susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. we also have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement and dolomitic lime production facilities. in 2014, the cement business incurred shutdown costs of $13.3 million during the second half of the year. in 2014, the magnesia specialties business incurred shutdown costs of $5.4 million during the year. any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time. 30 table of contents our cement and magnesia specialties businesses may become capacity constrained. if our cement or magnesia specialties businesses become capacity constrained, they may be unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of their products, and any resulting changes in customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of these segments. we can address capacity needs by enhancing our manufacturing productivity, increasing the operational availability of equipment, reducing machinery down time and extending machinery useful life. future demand for our products may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment. however, we may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time. capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of sales to competitors that are not capacity constrained. in addition, we may suffer excess capacity if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. our cement business could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the u.s. in violation of u.s. fair trade laws. the cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other countries that violated u.s. fair trade laws. currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from japan will expire in 2016 unless it is extended by the federal trade commission. as has always been the case, cement operators with import facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in latin america and asia, which could compete with domestic producers. in addition, if environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. an influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of u.s. fair trade laws, could adversely affect our cement business. road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. our aggregates-related downstream operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. in some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. if we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. in our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. these same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. these risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects. 31 table of contents changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 11.8% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business, 30.8% of the hourly employees of our cement business, and 100% of the hourly employees of our magnesia specialties business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the oro grande, california cement plant, the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant, and the woodville, ohio lime plant expire in june 2015, august 2015, and may 2018, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. we believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. 32 table of contents delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. we also rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship coal, natural gas, and other fuels to our plants. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. transportation operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. in texas, we compete for third party trucking services with operations in the oil and gas fields, which can significantly constrain the availability of those services to us. if there are material changes in the availability or cost of transportation services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or fuels at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs. the availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products across all of our segments. if owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. when we sold our river district operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. as a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the mississippi river. we still distribute some of our product by barge along rivers in west virginia. we may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. we urge you to read about our accounting policies in note a of our 2014 financial statements. the federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the united states for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. we have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. new or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 , and other related rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance. reports from the public company accounting oversight board ( pcaob ) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. the company costs to respond to these additional requirements and exposure to adverse findings by the pcaob of the work performed may increase as to internal controls. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. we have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the company business. demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels beyond the may 2015 expiration of map-21. further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues to be eroded by economic uncertainty. a recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during the construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. 34 table of contents we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities, like we did with the acquisition of txi, in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the cyclical steel industry. the magnesia specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our magnesia specialties business now runs near capacity so unexpected changes could affect its earnings. because our magnesia specialties business essentially runs near capacity, any unplanned changes in costs or customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment of our business. our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or 35 table of contents even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: a classified board of directors; the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. in addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. 36 table of contents we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2014 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45risk factors 20 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. 20 table of contents statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of competition under item 1 of this form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2016 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2016 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2016 annual report. our business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. economic and political uncertainty can impede growth in the markets in which we operate. demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if an economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may also hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit may limit the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales generating states, from time-to-time, stop or slow bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregates products, our primary business, and our cement products, to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our businesses depend on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates and cement products. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our products. the great recession was an example, and our business suffered. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. 21 table of contents while our business operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our aggregates business (based on net sales by state of destination) of texas, colorado, north carolina, iowa, and georgia, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the great recession. the great recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. recent years, however, have shown a turnaround in this trend. for the last five years, our aggregates shipments have increased, reflecting degrees of stability and modest growth. however, volumes are still below historically normal levels. prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the united states had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. during 2016 our aggregates shipments showed 1.4% improvement compared with 2015 levels, after a 2.1% increase the prior year. this improvement was made in 2016 despite significant levels of rainfall in many of our major markets. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, we experienced a slight retraction in aggregates shipments to this infrastructure market after uncertainty regarding the solvency of the federal highway bill in 2014. we were not able to get any certainty on the availability of federal infrastructure funding until late 2015, but the funding that was enacted had very little impact during 2016. this time lag with commencement of federal infrastructure funding was accompanied by a reduction in some states investment in highway maintenance. after a decade of 36 short-term funding provisions, a five-year, $305 billion highway bill, fixing america surface transportation act (the fast act ), was signed into law in late 2015. the fast act funding is primarily secured through gas tax collections. market analysis projects aggregate demand to increase with the availability of federal funding, with demand peaking in 2018, and thereafter declining with anticipated higher interest and inflation rates. while the fast act did not impact 2016 highway spending in a meaningful way, the overall highway spending in the united states did increase in 2016, showing the willingness of many states to address underlying demand for this type of spending. during the past 24 months, many states have taken on a significantly larger role in funding infrastructure investment, including initiating special-purpose taxes and raising gas taxes. supported by state spending programs, our aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market declined 4% in 2016 compared to an increase of 5% in 2015 compared with 2014. we believe that the demand and need for infrastructure projects will continue to support consistent growth in this market now that long-term federal funding has been resolved. in 2016, 39% of our product line aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. within the construction industry, we also sell our aggregates and cement products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. 22 table of contents in 2016, construction growth was driven by private-sector activity. nonresidential and residential construction levels are interest rate-sensitive and typically move in direct correlation with economic cycles. the dodge momentum index, a 12-month leading indicator of construction spending for nonresidential building compiled by mcgraw hill construction and where the year 2000 serves as an index basis of 100, remained strong and was at an eight-year high of 136.7 in december 2016, a 9% increase over prior year, signaling continued growth in nonresidential construction.. housing starts, a key indicator for residential construction activity, continue to show year-over-year improvement. while starts exceeded one million in 2016, they still remain below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million units. that said, the company expects to continue to experience gains in the residential market. importantly, 2016 housing starts exceeded completions, a trend expected to continue in 2017. our aggregates volumes to the nonresidential construction market accounted for 32% of our 2016 aggregates product line shipments and increased 3% compared with 2015. according to the u.s. census bureau, spending for the private nonresidential construction market increased 8% in 2016 compared with 2015. historically, half of the company nonresidential construction shipments have been used for office and retail projects, while the remainder has been used for heavy industrial and capacity-related projects, including energy-sector projects, namely development of shale-based natural gas fields. however, low oil prices in the latter part of 2015 and throughout 2016 has suppressed shale exploration activity. in 2016, the company shipped approximately 1.5 million tons to the energy-sector compared with approximately 3.6 million tons in 2015. the residential construction market accounted for approximately 21% of the company aggregates product line shipments in 2016. the company exposure to residential construction is typically split evenly between aggregates used in the construction of subdivisions (including roads, sidewalks, and storm and sewage drainage) and aggregates used in new home construction. therefore, the timing of new subdivision starts, as well as new home starts, equally affects residential volumes. private residential construction spending increased 5% in 2016 compared with 2015, according to the u.s. census bureau. shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high-calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (collectively chemrock/rail ) accounted for 8% of our aggregates shipments in 2016. ballast shipments declined in 2016 due to lower railroad activity, correlating with lower energy-related rail shipments. drier weather and favorable operating conditions led to increased shipments of agricultural limestone in 2016 over 2015. weather conditions in 2015 were abnormally wet, limiting field applications and influencing customers to defer their purchases. shipments of aggregates-related downstream products typically follow construction aggregates trends. the cement business was acquired from txi in 2014. its net sales of $364.4 million for 2016 reflected the company leading position in the texas market. our business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates and cement products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, and similar projects. 23 table of contents accordingly, our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. the existence of future federal infrastructure funding was resolved near the end of 2015 with the passage of the fast act. while the total value of united states overall public-works spending increased in 2016, federal funding through the fast act did not impact highway spending in any meaningful way. this increase in overall public works spending in 2016 demonstrates the commitment of states to address the underlying demand for infrastructure investment. we expect to see meaningful impact from the fast act funding beginning in 2017, along with increased infrastructure spending at the state level. moreover, president trump has proposed additional investment over the next decade to rebuild the country infrastructure. any such measures will require congressional approval. we cannot be assured, however, of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. the federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. the current federal highway bill passed in late 2015, the fast act, after a decade of 36 short-term funding provisions, reauthorizes federal highway and transportation funding programs. the fast act also changes the transportation infrastructure and innovation act ( tifia ) funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects. under the fast act tifia funding ranges from $275 million to $300 million, and no longer requires the 20% matching funds from state departments of transportation. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices (until recently), fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past several years. timely congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the highway trust fund. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. we also cannot be assured of the impact of the recent sharp reduction in gasoline prices on the levels of highway user taxes that might be collected in the future and the corresponding levels of funding to the highway trust fund. at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. many states have experienced state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. north carolina was among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. most state budgets, including north carolina, began to improve in 2014 and later years as increased tax revenues helped states resolve budget deficits. prior to the fast act, states had also taken on a larger role in funding sustained infrastructure investment. for example, texas voters in 2014 approved use of the state oil and gas production tax collections for annual disbursements to the state highway fund. additionally, in november 2015, voters passed proposition 7, a constitutional 24 table of contents amendment that will provide for funding for non-toll roads. proposition 7 is estimated to provide an additional $2.0 billion of annual funding for non-toll roads beginning in fiscal 2018 and is expected to increase after 2019. on november 8, 2016, texas voters approved $990 million of additional statewide transportation funding, including a $720 million transportation bond in austin. in north carolina, voters approved all transportation referendums during the november 2016 elections, totaling $1.2 billion of additional funding. during the past 24 months, many states have taken on a significantly larger role in funding infrastructure investment, including initiating special-purpose taxes and raising gas taxes. we anticipate further growth in state-level funding initiatives, such as bond issues, toll roads, and special purpose taxes, as states address infrastructure needs, particularly in periods of federal funding uncertainty. nevertheless, it is a continuing risk to our business that sufficient funding from federal, state, and local sources will not be available to address infrastructure needs. with most states in recovery or expansion, the sustained decline in energy costs may be the catalyst in some markets to boost construction and help our business. but those markets that are heavily dependent on the energy sector, namely oklahoma and west virginia, may, with the decrease in oil production, experience recessions or continued recessions, which would adversely impact our business. our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. since the heavy construction business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the production and shipment levels for the company aggregates business, including all of its aggregates-related downstream operations, vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. weather-related hindrances were exacerbated over the last two years by record precipitation in many of our key markets. the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) has tracked precipitation for 122 years. according to noaa, 2015 represented the wettest year on record for texas and oklahoma, while north carolina, south carolina, colorado and iowa each experienced a top-ten precipitation year. our nation as a whole had its third-wettest year in noaa recorded history in 2015. extremely wet conditions continued in 2016 in many of our key markets, especially in texas, with the year ranking the 18th wettest year in the state recorded history per noaa. further, since march 2015, texas and surrounding regions have experienced 18 major flood events. these weather events reduced the company overall profitability in 2016 and 2015, so our results for those years, or in comparison to other years, may not be indicative of our future operating results. the company operations in the southeastern and gulf coast regions of the united states and the bahamas are at risk for hurricane activity, most notably in august, september and october. in october 2016, rainfall along the eastern seaboard of the united states from hurricane matthew, a category-5 hurricane, approximated 13.6 trillion gallons. additionally, hurricane matthew was the first major hurricane on record to make landfall in the bahamas, where the company has a facility. 25 table of contents our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregates deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as other examples, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products and our cement business may compete with international competitors who are importing product to the united states with lower production and regulatory costs. 26 table of contents our businesses could be impacted by rising interest rates. as discussed previously, our operations are highly dependent upon the interest rate-sensitive construction and steelmaking industries. therefore, business in these industries and for us may decline if interest rates rise and costs increase. for example, demand in the residential construction market in which we sell our aggregate products is affected by interest rates. the federal reserve has kept the federal funds rate near zero percent for a number of years. the recent 0.25% increase in the rate in december 2016, comparable to the 0.25% increase the previous year, represented only the second increase since 2008. however, certain federal reserve members have predicted they would raise interest rates three more times to at least 1.25% by the end of 2017. the residential construction market accounted for 21% of our aggregates product line shipments in 2016. aside from these inherent risks from within our operations, our earnings are also affected by changes in short-term interest rates. however, rising interest rates are not necessarily predictive of weaker operating results. historically, our profitability increased during period of rising interest rates. in essence, our underlying business generally serves as a natural hedge to rising interest rates. rising interest rates could also result in disruptions in the credit markets, which could affect our business, as described in greater detail under disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business below. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire, like our acquisition of txi in 2014. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. for example, we used our common stock in our acquisition of txi. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. our integration of the acquisition of or business combination with other businesses may not be as successful as projected. we have a successful history of business combinations and integration of these businesses into our heritage operations. our largest business acquisition has been our business combination with txi, which closed in july 2014. in 2015 we completed the integration of txi operations into our own operations, which allowed 27 table of contents us to achieve the synergies, cost savings, and operating efficiencies we had forecasted from the txi acquisition. in fact we completed this integration ahead of schedule and achieved even greater synergies and cost saving than the amount we originally forecasted from the txi acquisition. however, in connection with the integration of any business that we may acquire, it is a risk factor that we will not be able to achieve such integration in a successful manner or on the time schedule we have projected or in a way that will achieve the level of synergies, cost savings, or operating efficiencies we have forecast from the acquisition. any other significant business acquisition or combination we might chose to do, similar to the acquisition of txi, would require that we devote significant management attention and resources to preparing for and then integrating our business practices and operations. we believe we would be successful in this integration process. nevertheless, we may fail to realize some of the anticipated benefits of any potential acquisition or other business combination that we might choose to pursue in the future, if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: the inability to successfully combine operations in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed acquisition or business combination, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or business combination not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either the company or former customers of the acquired or combined company deciding not to do business with the company; complexities associated with managing the combined operations; integrating personnel; creation of uniform standards, internal controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with integrating the remaining operations; and performance shortfalls at business units as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the remaining integration of the operations. aggregates-related downstream businesses have lower profit margins and can be more volatile. our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and road paving businesses typically provide lower profit margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and lower barriers to entry. therefore, as we expand these operations, our overall gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) is likely to be adversely affected. we saw this impact our gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) in recent years. our overall aggregates-related downstream operations gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) was 12% for 2016 and 8% for 2015. the overall gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) for our aggregates-related downstream operations. 28 table of contents short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy and raw materials affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. because of the fluctuating trends in diesel fuel prices, we enter into fixed-price fuel agreements from time to time for a portion of our diesel fuel to reduce our diesel fuel price risk. our last fixed-price commitment for a portion of our diesel fuel requirements expired at the end of 2016. to illustrate how diesel fuel price fluctuations, and other energy costs, have impacted our business, consider the recent years. in 2013 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower than we paid in 2012, but the average cost of natural gas was 18% higher than 2012. similarly, in 2014 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 8% lower compared to 2013, but the average cost of natural gas increased 24% from 2013. diesel fuel, which averaged $2.82 per gallon in 2014 and $2.98 per gallon in 2013, represents the single largest component of energy costs for our aggregates business. diesel fuel prices declined rapidly during december 2014, ending the year at a per gallon price that was 26% below the 2014 average. this trend continued in 2015, as the company average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2015 was $2.05 compared with $3.02 in 2014. natural gas costs also declined in 2015, down 28% from the 2014 average cost. these trends continued in 2016. average diesel fuel prices per gallon fell to $1.96 in 2016 compared to $2.05 in 2015. our average diesel fuel prices for 2015 and 2016 were higher than spot market prices by $0.30 per gallon since we purchased approximately 40% of our diesel fuel under a fixed price fuel agreement, which agreement has now expired, that had locked in a higher price at an earlier time. natural gas costs again declined in 2016, down 25% from the 2015 average cost. the company has fixed price agreements for 100% of its 2017 coal needs, approximately 25% of its 2017 natural gas needs, and 50% of its 2017 petroleum coke needs. cement production requires large amounts of energy, including electricity and fossil fuels. energy costs represented approximately 22% of the 2016 direct production costs of our cement business. therefore, the cost of energy is one of our largest expenses. prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control and can be quite volatile. price increases that we are unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect us. accordingly, volatility in energy costs can adversely affect the financial results of our cement business. profitability of the cement business is also subject to kiln maintenance, which requires the plant to be shut down for a period of time as repairs are made. the cement business incurred shutdown costs of $20.9 and $26.0 million during 2016 and 2015, respectively. similarly our aggregates-related downstream operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, 29 table of contents respectively. some of these raw materials we can produce internally but most are purchased from third parties. these purchased raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. the financial results of our aggregates-related downstream operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. we generally see frequent volatility in the costs for these raw materials. for 2014, we saw higher prices for these raw materials than 2013. this trend reversed in 2015, when we saw lower prices for these raw materials than 2014. liquid asphalt prices in 2016 were again lower than in 2015. liquid asphalt prices may not always follow other energy products (e.g., oil or diesel fuel) because of complexities in the refining process which converts a barrel of oil into other fuels and petrochemical products. cement is a commodity sensitive to supply and price volatility. cement is a commodity, and competition is often based mainly on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. prices fluctuate significantly in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions, which we cannot control. when cement producers increase production capacity or more cement is imported into the market, an oversupply of cement in the market may occur if supply exceeds demand. in that case cement prices generally fall. we cannot be assured that prices for our cement products sold will not decline in the future or that such decline will not have a material adverse effect on our cement business. unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. this equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damage during accidents. in addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. we have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement and dolomitic lime production facilities. in 2016, the cement business incurred shutdown costs of $20.9 million during the year. in 2016, the magnesia specialties business incurred shutdown costs of $4.5 million during the year. any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time. our cement and magnesia specialties businesses may become capacity constrained. if our cement or magnesia specialties businesses become capacity constrained, they may be unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of their products, and any resulting changes in customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of these segments. we can address capacity needs by enhancing our manufacturing productivity, increasing the operational availability of equipment, reducing machinery down time and extending machinery useful life. future demand for our products may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment. however, we may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time. capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of sales to competitors that are not capacity constrained. in addition, we may suffer excess capacity if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. 30 table of contents our cement business could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the u.s. in violation of u.s. fair trade laws. the cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other countries that violated u.s. fair trade laws. currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from japan is set to expire but is under review for extension by the federal trade commission. as has always been the case, cement operators with import facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in latin america and asia, which could compete with domestic producers. in addition, if environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. an influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of u.s. fair trade laws, could adversely affect our cement business. road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. our aggregates-related downstream operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. in some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. if we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. in our road paving construction operations, we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid. these same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. these risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. 31 table of contents we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 9.9% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business, none of the hourly employees of our cement business, and 100% of the hourly employees of our magnesia specialties business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio, lime plant expire in august 2019 and may 2018, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail or ship. we also rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship coal, natural gas and other fuels to our plants. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. transportation operations are subject to 32 table of contents capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. in texas, we compete for third-party trucking services with operations in the oil and gas fields, which can significantly constrain the availability of those services to us. if there are material changes in the availability or cost of transportation services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or fuels at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs. the availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products across all of our segments. if owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregates products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2027 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. when we sold our river district operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. as a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the mississippi river. we still distribute some of our product by barge along rivers in west virginia. we may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 33 table of contents the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could, either positively or negatively, affect results reported for periods after adoption of the standards as compared to the prior periods, or require retrospective application changing results reported for prior periods. we urge you to read about our accounting policies in note a of our 2016 financial statements. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 , and other related rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance. reports from the public company accounting oversight board ( pcaob ) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. the company costs to respond to these additional requirements may increase. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. we have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the company business. demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels, until the recent enactment of a new federal highway bill. further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues to be eroded by economic uncertainty. a recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during the construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. 34 table of contents we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities, like we did with the acquisition of txi, in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the cyclical steel industry. the magnesia specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our magnesia specialties business faces currency risks from its overseas operations. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies located outside the united states. approximately 18% of the revenues of the magnesia specialties business in 2016 were from foreign jurisdictions, principally canada, mexico, europe, south america and the pacific rim, but no single foreign county accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. therefore the operations of the magnesia specialties business are affected from time to time by the fluctuating values of the currency exchange rates of the countries in which it does business in relation to the value of the u.s. dollar. the business tries to mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates by primarily denominating sales in the u.s. dollar. this still leaves the business subject to certain risks, depending on the strength of the u.s. dollar. in 2016, the strength of the u.s. dollar in foreign markets negatively affected the overall price of the products of the magnesia specialties business when compared to foreign-domiciled competitors. our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems and technology; our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; 35 table of contents we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. our articles of incorporation and bylaws and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. changes in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; 36 table of contents adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings and free cash flow for future periods. currently, the u.s. congress is considering changes in the corporate tax code that, if enacted, could affect our net earnings. while the current expectation is a reduction in corporate tax rates, which should favorably affect net earnings, we cannot be certain of the impact of the elimination of tax preferences, capital investment deductibility or border adjustments, among other considerations. based on our current assessment, a reduction in corporate tax rates to 25% (from 35%) and the elimination of all current deductions, including the statutory percentage depletion deduction, would be neutral to both net earnings and free cash flow. however, this assessment will change depending on the ultimate nature, extent and/or timing of any tax code changes, if any. we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2016 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 19 risk factors general risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. this form 10-k and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. the words may, will, could, 19 table of contents should, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, outlook, plan, project, scheduled, and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. any or all of the company forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the company and may be material to the company. the company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the company and its operations. the forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by sections 27a and 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. these forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management current expectations, and the company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of competition under item 1 of this form 10-k, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this form 10-k and the 2017 annual report, and note a: accounting policies and note n: commitments and contingencies of the notes to financial statements of the 2017 financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k and the 2017 annual report. our business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. economic and political uncertainty can impede growth in the markets in which we operate. demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if an economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may also hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. the lack of available credit may limit the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. several of our top sales generating states, from time-to-time, stop or slow bidding projects in their transportation departments. we sell most of our aggregates products, our primary business, and our cement products, to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. since our businesses depend on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates and cement products. construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. if economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our products. the great recession was an example, and our business suffered. construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. 20 table of contents while our business operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. if economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our building materials business (based on net sales by state of destination) of texas, colorado, north carolina, iowa, and georgia, our profitability will decrease. we experienced this situation with the great recession. the great recession of 2008 resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregates products in our industry. recent years, however, have shown a slow turnaround in this trend. the united states is currently experiencing the third-longest economic recovery since the great depression. as of december 31, 2017, the current expansion, which started in june 2009, the approximate end of the great recession, has lasted 102 months. by comparison, the average trough-to-peak expansionary cycle since 1938 was 60 months and, in may 2018, the current cycle will become the second-longest economic recovery since the great depression. during this current economic expansion, however, governmental uncertainty, labor shortages and record levels of precipitation have slowed the pace of heavy construction activity, resulting in what we believe to be a slow, steady, extended construction cycle. the company overall aggregates product line shipments remain approximately 10% below mid-cycle demand. importantly, the level of recovery varies within the company geographic footprint. specifically, north carolina and georgia, key states in the mid-america and southeast groups, respectively, are approximately 20% below mid-cycle demand, while texas, a key state in the west group, is modestly above mid-cycle demand. during 2017 our aggregates product line shipments showed a 0.6% decline compared with 2016 levels, after a 1.4% increase in 2016. while historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, we experienced a slight retraction in aggregates product line shipments to the infrastructure market after uncertainty regarding the solvency of the federal highway bill in 2014. contractors were not able to get any certainty on the availability of federal infrastructure funding until late 2015 with the enactment of a new federal highway bill, which has had insignificant impact at the federal level to date. this time lag with commencement of federal infrastructure funding was accompanied by a reduction in some states investment in highway maintenance. the public infrastructure market accounted for approximately 40% of the company aggregates product line shipments in 2017, consistent with 2016 and 2015. government uncertainty, attendant project delays and tight labor markets have exerted disproportionate downward pressure on public construction activity and, for the past three years, as these headwinds have worsened, the company shipments to this end use market have remained below the most recent five-year average of 43% and ten-year average of 48%. our aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market increased 2% in 2017 compared with 2016. the nonresidential construction market accounted for approximately 31% of the company aggregates product line shipments in 2017. our aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market decreased 3% in 2017 compared with 2016. according to the u.s. census bureau, spending for the private nonresidential construction market increased in 2017 compared with 2016. the dodge momentum index (dmi), a twelve-month leading indicator of construction spending for nonresidential building compiled by mcgraw-hill construction and where the year 2000 serves as an index basis of 100, remained strong at a nine-year high of 153.9 in december 2017, a 21% increase over prior year. historically, half of the company nonresidential construction shipments have been used for office and retail projects, while the remainder has been used for heavy industrial and capacity-related projects, including energy-related projects. since the latter part of 2015, low oil prices have suppressed shipments directly into shale exploration activities. in 2017, the company shipped approximately 1.8 million tons for shale exploration compared with approximately 1.5 million tons in 2016 and 3.6 million tons in 2015. 21 table of contents the residential construction market accounted for approximately 21% of the company aggregates product line shipments in 2017. our aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 1% in 2017 compared with 2016. private residential construction spending increased 12% in 2017 compared with 2016, according to the u.s. census bureau. the residential construction market, like the nonresidential construction market, is interest rate-sensitive and typically moves in direct correlation with economic cycles. the company exposure to residential construction is split between aggregates used in the construction of subdivisions (including roads, sidewalks, and storm and sewage drainage), aggregates used in new single-family home construction and aggregates used in construction of multi-family units. construction of both subdivisions and single-family homes is more aggregates intensive than construction of multi-family units. through an economic cycle, multi-family construction generally begins early in the cycle and then transitions to single-family construction. therefore, the timing of new subdivision starts, as well as new single-family housing permits, are strong indicators of residential volumes. while residential housing starts were approximately 1.3 million units in 2017, they still remain below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million units. our business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. our aggregates and cement products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, and similar projects. accordingly, our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. the visibility into future federal infrastructure funding was clarified near the end of 2015 with the passage of the current federal highway bill, the fast act, which reauthorizes federal highway and transportation funding programs. the fast act also changes the transportation infrastructure and innovation act ( tifia ) funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects. under the fast act tifia funding ranges from $275 million to $300 million, and no longer requires the 20% matching funds from state dots. while the total value of united states overall public-works spending increased in 2017, federal funding through the fast act did not impact highway spending in any meaningful way. this increase in overall public works spending in 2017 demonstrates the commitment of states to address the underlying demand for infrastructure investment. we expect to see some increased infrastructure spending at the state level in 2018, but no meaningful impact from the fast act funding or an enhanced federal infrastructure bill until 2019 or later. any enhanced federal infrastructure bill will require congressional approval. we cannot be assured, however, of such approval or of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. the annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the highway trust fund. once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. the highway trust fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. these shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. in response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the general fund into the highway trust fund over the past several years. timely congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the highway trust fund. we cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. we also cannot be assured of the impact of the recent sharp reduction in gasoline prices on the levels of highway user taxes that might be collected in the future and the corresponding levels of funding to the highway trust fund. 22 table of contents at the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. many states after the great recession experienced state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. for example, north carolina was among the states that experienced these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. most state budgets, including north carolina, improved in 2014 and later years as increased tax revenues helped resolve budget deficits. during the past 36 months, many states have taken on a significantly larger role in funding infrastructure investment, including initiating special-purpose taxes and raising gas taxes. in the november 2017 election, $3.7 billion of transportation funding initiatives were approved in texas, colorado, georgia, south carolina and kansas. we anticipate further growth in state-level funding initiatives, such as bond issues, toll roads, and special purpose taxes, as states address infrastructure needs, particularly in periods of federal funding uncertainty. nevertheless, it is a continuing risk to our business that sufficient funding from federal, state, and local sources will not be available to address infrastructure needs. with most states in recovery or expansion, the sustained decline in energy costs may be the catalyst in some markets to boost construction and help our business. but those markets that are heavily dependent on the energy sector, namely oklahoma and west virginia, may, with the decrease in oil production, experience recessions or continued recessions, which would adversely impact our business. our building materials business is seasonal and subject to the weather, which can significantly impact operations. since the heavy-side construction business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. the building materials product lines production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. because of the weather effect on the construction industry activity, the production and shipment levels for the company building materials business, including all of its aggregates-related downstream operations, vary by quarter. the second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. weather-related hindrances were exacerbated over the last two years by record precipitation in many of our key markets. nationally, 2017 marked the 20th wettest year on record, and the fifth consecutive year with above-average precipitation. the last few years brought an unprecedented amount of precipitation to the united states and particularly to texas. importantly, inclement weather was most significant during the second and third quarters, which represents the zenith of the construction season. for the six-month period from april through september, for the 123 years the national oceanic atmospheric administration (noaa) has been tracking data, most areas experienced above-average rainfall. these weather events reduced the company overall profitability in 2017 and 2016, so our results for those years, or in comparison to other years, may not be indicative of our future operating results. 23 table of contents the company operations in the southeastern and gulf coast regions of the united states and the bahamas are at risk for hurricane activity, most notably in august, september and october. in texas, hurricane harvey, a category 4 storm that made landfall in houston in august 2017, brought nearly 20 trillion gallons of precipitation. in the southeast, hurricane irma, also a category 4 storm, made landfall in florida in september 2017 and brought excessive rainfall to the southeastern united states, notably florida and georgia. in october 2016, rainfall along the eastern seaboard of the united states from hurricane matthew, a category-5 hurricane, approximated 13.6 trillion gallons. hurricane matthew was the first major hurricane on record to make landfall in the bahamas, where the company has a facility. these hurricanes generated winds, rainfall, and flooding which disrupted operations in texas, louisiana, florida, georgia, the carolinas, and the bahamas. our building materials business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. our challenge is to find aggregates deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. as communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. we try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. our business is a capital-intensive business. the property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. we believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. our businesses face many competitors. our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. we also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. for example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. as other examples, our aggregates, ready mix concrete, and asphalt and paving product lines may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products and our cement product line may compete with international competitors who are importing product to the united states with lower production and regulatory costs. 24 table of contents our businesses could be impacted by rising interest rates. as discussed previously, our operations are highly dependent upon the interest rate-sensitive construction and steelmaking industries. therefore, business in these industries and for us may decline if interest rates rise and costs increase. for example, demand in the residential construction market in which we sell our aggregate products is affected by interest rates. in 2017, the federal reserve raised the federal funds rate to over one percent for the first time in nearly a decade. the residential construction market accounted for 21% of our aggregates product line shipments in 2017. aside from these inherent risks from within our operations, our earnings are also affected by changes in short-term interest rates. however, rising interest rates are not necessarily predictive of weaker operating results. historically, our profitability increased during period of rising interest rates. in essence, our underlying business generally serves as a natural hedge to rising interest rates. rising interest rates could also result in disruptions in the credit markets, which could affect our business, as described in greater detail under disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business below. our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. we expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire, like our acquisition of txi in 2014 and our pending acquisition of bluegrass materials. in the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations and enter new geographic markets. we will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. however, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. we cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. we may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition (excluding bluegrass materials) with shares of our common stock. for example, we used our common stock in our acquisition of txi. we may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. if we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. we operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing long-term shareholder return. we cannot be assured our proposed acquisition of bluegrass materials will be completed or will be completed in the timeframe or on the terms or in the manner we currently anticipate. there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our proposed acquisition of bluegrass materials. for example, the acquisition may not be completed, or may not be completed in the timeframe, on the terms or in the manner we currently anticipate, as a result of a number of factors, including the failure of one or more of the conditions to closing the proposed acquisition. we cannot be assured the conditions to closing the proposed acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the failure to close the acquisition. the acquisition agreement may be terminated by the parties under certain circumstances. any delay in closing or a failure to close could have a negative impact on our business and the trading prices of our securities. 25 table of contents we and bluegrass materials will be subject to business uncertainties while the proposed acquisition is pending that could adversely affect our and their business. uncertainty about the effect of the proposed acquisition of bluegrass materials on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and bluegrass materials. although we and bluegrass materials intend to take actions to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our and their ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the proposed acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter. these uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers, and others that transact business with us and/or bluegrass materials to seek to change existing business relationships. in addition, employee retention could be reduced during the pendency of the proposed acquisition, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. if, despite our and bluegrass materials retention efforts, key employees depart because of concerns relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of the integration process or a desire not to remain with us, our business could be harmed. before the proposed acquisition may be completed, the applicable waiting period must expire or terminate under federal law, and we may be required to divest certain assets in order to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. in addition to this regulatory approval, the proposed acquisition is subject to certain other conditions that may prevent, delay, or otherwise materially adversely affect completion of the transaction. we cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. the requirements for satisfying such conditions could delay completion of the proposed acquisition of bluegrass materials for a period of time, reducing or eliminating some anticipated benefits of the transaction, or prevent completion of the acquisition from occurring at all. our integration of the acquisition of or business combination with other businesses may not be as successful as projected. we have a successful history of business combinations and integration of these businesses into our heritage operations. our largest business acquisition has been our business combination with txi, which closed in july 2014. in 2015 we completed the integration of txi operations into our own operations ahead of schedule, which allowed us to achieve and exceed the synergies, cost savings, and operating efficiencies we had forecasted from the txi acquisition. however, in connection with the integration of any business that we may acquire, including our proposed acquisition of bluegrass materials, it is a risk factor that we will not be able to achieve such integration in a successful manner or on the time schedule we have projected or in a way that will achieve the level of synergies, cost savings, or operating efficiencies we have forecast from the acquisition. any other significant business acquisition or combination we might choose to do, similar to the acquisition of txi or bluegrass materials, would require that we devote significant management attention and resources to preparing for and then integrating our business practices and operations. we believe we would be successful in this integration process. nevertheless, we may fail to realize some of the anticipated benefits of any potential acquisition or other business combination that we might choose to pursue in the future, if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: the inability to successfully combine operations in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed acquisition or business combination, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or business combination not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; 26 table of contents lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either the company or former customers of the acquired or combined company deciding not to do business with the company; complexities associated with managing the combined operations; integrating personnel; creation of uniform standards, internal controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with integrating the remaining operations; and performance shortfalls at business units as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the remaining integration of the operations. our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving product lines have lower profit margins and operating results can be more volatile. our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving businesses typically provide lower profit margins than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and lower barriers to entry. therefore, as we expand these operations, our overall gross margin is likely to be adversely affected. our overall ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations gross margin was 12.7% for 2017 and 13.1% for 2016. the overall gross margin of our building materials business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving product lines. short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy and raw materials affect our businesses. our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. the financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. changes in energy costs also affect the prices that the company pays for related supplies, including explosives, conveyor belting and tires. while we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. because of the fluctuating trends in diesel fuel prices, we enter into fixed-price fuel agreements from time to time for a portion of our diesel fuel to reduce our diesel fuel price risk. our last fixed-price commitment for a portion of our diesel fuel requirements expired at the end of 2016. to illustrate how diesel fuel price fluctuations and other energy costs have impacted our business, consider the recent years. in 2013 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower than we paid in 2012, but the average cost of natural gas was 18% higher than 2012. similarly, in 2014 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 8% lower compared to 2013, but the average cost of natural gas increased 24% from 2013. diesel fuel, which averaged $2.82 per gallon in 2014 and $2.98 per gallon in 2013, represents the single largest component of energy costs for our aggregates, ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving product lines. diesel fuel prices declined rapidly during december 2014, ending the year at a per 27 table of contents gallon price that was 26% below the 2014 average. this trend continued in 2015, as the company average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2015 was $2.05 compared with $3.02 in 2014. natural gas costs also declined in 2015, down 28% from the 2014 average cost. these trends continued in 2016 and 2017 for diesel fuel prices. average diesel fuel prices per gallon fell to $1.81 in 2017 compared to $1.96 in 2016, which compared with $2.05 in 2015. our average diesel fuel prices for 2015 and 2016 were higher than spot market prices by $0.30 per gallon since we purchased approximately 40% of our diesel fuel under a fixed price fuel agreement, which has expired, that had locked in a higher price at an earlier time. natural gas costs increased in 2017 approximately 33% from 2016 levels, which had declined in 2016, down 25% from the 2015 average cost. the company has fixed price agreements for 100% of its 2018 coal needs, approximately 33% of its 2018 natural gas needs, and 100% of its 2018 petroleum coke needs. cement production requires large amounts of energy, including electricity and fossil fuels. energy costs represented approximately 22% of the 2017 direct production costs of our cement product line. therefore, the cost of energy is one of our largest expenses. prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control and can be quite volatile. price increases that we are unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect us. accordingly, volatility in energy costs can adversely affect the financial results of our cement product line. profitability of the cement product line is also subject to kiln maintenance, which requires the plant to be shut down for a period of time as repairs are made. the cement product line incurred shutdown costs of $12.6 and $20.9 million during 2017 and 2016, respectively. similarly our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. some of these raw materials we can produce internally but most are purchased from third parties. these purchased raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. the financial results of our ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. we generally see frequent volatility in the costs for these raw materials. for 2014, we saw higher prices for these raw materials than 2013. this trend reversed in 2015, when we saw lower prices for these raw materials than 2014. liquid asphalt prices in 2016 were again lower than in 2015. the trend reversed itself again in 2017 when liquid asphalt prices were slightly higher than in 2016. liquid asphalt prices may not always follow other energy products (e.g., oil or diesel fuel) because of complexities in the refining process which converts a barrel of oil into other fuels and petrochemical products. cement is a commodity sensitive to supply and price volatility. cement is a commodity, and competition is often based mainly on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. prices fluctuate significantly in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions, which we cannot control. when cement producers increase production capacity or more cement is imported into the market, an oversupply of cement in the market may occur if supply exceeds demand. in that case cement prices generally fall. we cannot be assured that prices for our cement products sold will not decline in the future or that such decline will not have a material adverse effect on our cement product line. 28 table of contents unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. this equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damage during accidents. in addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. we have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement and dolomitic lime production facilities. in 2017, the cement product line incurred shutdown costs of $12.6 million during the year. in 2017, the magnesia specialties business incurred shutdown costs of $5.1 million during the year. any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time. our cement product line and magnesia specialties business may become capacity constrained. if our cement product line or magnesia specialties business becomes capacity constrained, they may be unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of their products, and any resulting changes in customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of these segments. we can address capacity needs by enhancing our manufacturing productivity, increasing the operational availability of equipment, reducing machinery down time and extending machinery useful life. future demand for our products may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment. however, we may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time. capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of sales to competitors that are not capacity constrained. in addition, we may suffer excess capacity if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. our cement product line could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the u.s. in violation of u.s. fair trade laws. the cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other countries that violated u.s. fair trade laws. currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from japan is set to expire but is under review for extension by the federal trade commission. as has always been the case, cement operators with import facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in latin america and asia, which could compete with domestic producers. in addition, if environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. an influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of u.s. fair trade laws, could adversely affect our cement product line. our paving operations present additional risks to our business. our paving operations face challenges when our contracts have penalties for late completion. in some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. if we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. in our paving operations, we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid. these same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. these risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects. 29 table of contents changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. many federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety and other regulatory matters govern our operations. we take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. we cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. we are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. we could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. we are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. these risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. for example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. we are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. while we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. labor unions represent 10.5% of the hourly employees of our building materials business and 100% of the hourly employees of our magnesia specialties business. our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the manistee, michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the woodville, ohio, lime plant expire in august 2019 and may 2018, respectively. disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. 30 table of contents delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail or ship. we also rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship coal, natural gas and other fuels to our plants. any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. transportation operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. in texas, we compete for third-party trucking services with operations in the oil and gas fields, which can significantly constrain the availability of those services to us. if there are material changes in the availability or cost of transportation services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or fuels at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs. the availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products across all of our segments. if owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. we have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregates products from our bahamas and nova scotia operations to various coastal ports. these contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2023 to 2027 and generally contain renewal options. our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. when we sold our river district operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. as a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the mississippi river. we still distribute some of our product by barge along rivers in west virginia. we may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. the accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. we make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. these estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. if we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. while we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. we urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 31 table of contents the adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. the accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. new or revised accounting standards could, either positively or negatively, affect results reported for periods after adoption of the standards as compared to the prior periods, or require retrospective application changing results reported for prior periods. we urge you to read about our accounting policies in note a of our 2017 financial statements. reports from the public company accounting oversight board ( pcaob ) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. the company costs to respond to these additional requirements may increase. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. we have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the company business. demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels, until the recent enactment of a new federal highway bill. further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues to be eroded by economic uncertainty. a recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. we are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. nevertheless, we experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during the construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. the credit environment could impact the company ability to borrow money in the future. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. a reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities, like we did with the acquisition of txi, in order to maintain our investment grade 32 table of contents credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. while management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes the company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. while we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the cyclical steel industry. the magnesia specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. our magnesia specialties business faces currency risks from its overseas operations. our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies located outside the united states. therefore the operations of the magnesia specialties business are affected from time to time by the fluctuating values of the currency exchange rates of the countries in which it does business in relation to the value of the u.s. dollar. the business tries to mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates by primarily denominating sales in the u.s. dollar. this still leaves the business subject to certain risks, depending on the strength of the u.s. dollar. in 2017, the strength of the u.s. dollar in foreign markets negatively affected the overall price of the products of the magnesia specialties business when compared to foreign-domiciled competitors. our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into acquisition agreements. acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems and technology; our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. 33 table of contents our articles of incorporation and bylaws and north carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws and north carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. additionally, the occurrence of certain change-of-control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. increases in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including: governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction; the jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation; other changes in tax laws, and the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. any significant increase in our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings and free cash flow for future periods. 34 table of contents the 2017 tax act, which was signed into law on december 22, 2017, included a reduction in the federal corporate tax rate to 21%. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting practices, we performed a provisional re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new rate as of december 31, 2017, which resulted in a one-time, non-cash income tax benefit to us of $258.1 million. we recorded this income tax benefit on a provisional basis, subject to adjustment, as described below. in december 2017, the sec issued guidance to address the application of authoritative tax accounting guidance in situations where companies do not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 tax act for the reporting period in which the 2017 tax act was enacted. in these instances, the sec guidance allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. we have recorded the provisional tax benefit in our 2017 consolidated financial statements to reflect the impact of the 2017 tax act, as we have yet to complete our analysis of the impact. any adjustment to this provisional amount as we complete our analysis could have a material impact on our 2018 results of operations. we are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. we are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required in response to this item 7a is included under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the 2017 annual report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29risk factors 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71