risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf's business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf's revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel and footwear, which is sensitive to global economic conditions and other factors. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the success of vf's business depends on consumer spending on apparel and footwear, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, weather conditions, energy prices, consumer discretionary spending patterns and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf's products are sold. the current global economic environment is unpredictable, and adverse economic trends or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending, which could have a material adverse impact on vf. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf's success depends on its ability to gauge consumer preferences and product trends, and to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf's ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and product trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; and produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences, markets and product trends could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, there are significant shifts underway in the wholesale and retail (e-commerce and retail store) channels. vf may not be able to manage its brands within and across channels sufficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. vf's results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions, and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs, the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices or excess inventory held by our wholesale customers, which could have a negative impact on future sales, an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf's brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf's reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf's business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf's success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands' images and vf's customers' connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands' images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes, musicians and celebrities and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations, which could adversely affect the images of our brands. vf's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf's business is increasingly seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on vf's full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf corporation 2017 form 10-k 9 vf's profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf's profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its business strategy. one of vf's key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building our lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf's brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores, remodeling and expanding our existing stores and growing our e-commerce business. however, we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. for example: we may have difficulty completing acquisitions or dispositions to reshape our portfolio, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to transform our model to be more consumer- and retail-centric we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, or our wholesale customers may encounter financial difficulties and thus reduce their purchases of vf products. we may not be able to expand our brands in asia or other geographies or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our direct-to-consumer expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our strategic objectives may have a material adverse effect on vf's business. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf's ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage or interruption. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf's business, including management of inventory, ordering and replenishment of products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its business operations, results of operations or reputation. in the normal course of business, we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer and other proprietary information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf's systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information and we may not be able to comply with new regulations such as the general data protection regulation in the european union. vf's business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf's hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf's total revenues (approximately 41% in 2017 ) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf's international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf's international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf's u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the costs of these products are affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf's licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, 10 vf corporation 2017 form 10-k which could have a material adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf's acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf's operations and earnings may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. these include the burdens of complying with u.s. and international laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers and the economic uncertainty associated with the pending exit of the united kingdom from the european union ("brexit") or any other similar referendums that may be held. a significant portion of vf's 2017 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and most of our goods are manufactured outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations and manufacturing products outside the u.s. we cannot predict any changes to u.s. participation in or renegotiations of certain trade agreements or whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf's business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf's business or may require us to modify our current business practices. while enactment of any such change is not certain, if such changes were adopted, our costs could increase, which would reduce our earnings. changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. the tax act significantly impacts our effective tax rate for 2017 as a result of the deemed repatriation tax, and may impact several other elements of our operating model. in future years, certain additional provisions of the tax act, such as a minimum tax on foreign earnings, will also apply to vf and, as a result, could increase our effective tax rate. taxes due over a period of time as a result of the new tax law could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due. the new law makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code and we expect to see future regulatory, administrative or legislative guidance. we are analyzing the tax act to determine the full impact of the new tax law, and to the extent any future guidance differs from our preliminary interpretation of the law, it could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, many countries in the european union and around the globe have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws. further, organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic u.s. and international tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. vf's balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf's consolidated statement of income and could be material. vf's policy is to evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill for possible impairment as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of such assets may be below their carrying amount. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2018 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments vf corporation 2017 form 10-k 11 in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf's business operations. during fiscal 2017 , approximately 77% of vf's units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central america and the caribbean. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products, or our cost of producing or delivering products and, as a result, our profitability: political or labor instability in countries where vf's facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; changes in local economic conditions in countries where vf's facilities, contractors, and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, such as the west coast dock workers labor dispute that disrupted international trade at seaports, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf's anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf's goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the required labor and expertise; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf's production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf's revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive national, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws, implements labor or other business practices or takes other actions that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf's merchandise. damage to vf's reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf's reputation. fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf's cost of goods sold or its ability to meet its customers' demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. 12 vf corporation 2017 form 10-k for example, periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter can lead to inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers, which can, in turn, negatively affect orders in future seasons. in addition, abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. any and all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a substantial portion of vf's revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf's revenues and profits. a few of vf's customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf's ten largest customers were 19% of total revenues in 2017 , with our largest customer accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf's major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. the retail industry has experienced financial difficulty that could increase vf's bad debt. recently there have been consolidations, reorganizations, restructurings, bankruptcies and ownership changes in the retail industry. these events individually, and together, could materially, adversely affect vf's business. these changes could impact vf's opportunities in the market and increase vf's reliance on a smaller number of large customers. in the future, retailers are likely to further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations or bankruptcies, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf's products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf's customers over their suppliers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf's trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. our ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. this could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf's business. vf has a $2.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in april 2020. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements to honor their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf's executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf's business. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. vf's direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) u.s. or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf's control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud and (d) risks related to vf's direct-to-consumer distribution centers and processes. risks specific to vf's e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, (c) liability for online content, (d) changing patterns of consumer behavior and (e) intense competition from online retailers. vf's failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. vf's net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and vf corporation 2017 form 10-k 13 other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf's trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights, especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf's brands, such as the north face , timberland , vans , jansport , dickies , wrangler and lee , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf's trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf's success. counterfeiting of vf's products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf's revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf's intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf's products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf's ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf's intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf's trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf's trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf's brands. during 2017 , $75.5 million of vf's revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf's revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf's global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf's brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf's ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf's distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf's products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf's operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf's distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf's distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf's defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of 14 vf corporation 2017 form 10-k pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf's business. vf's operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf's future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf's market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf's business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf's revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel and footwear, which is sensitive to global economic conditions and other factors. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the success of vf's business depends on consumer spending on apparel and footwear, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, weather conditions, energy prices, consumer discretionary spending patterns and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf's products are sold. the current global economic environment is unpredictable, and adverse economic trends or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending, which could have a material adverse impact on vf. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf's success depends on its ability to gauge consumer preferences and product trends, and to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf's ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and product trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis; and, adapt to a more digitally driven consumer landscape. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences, markets and product trends could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, there are significant shifts underway in the wholesale and retail (e-commerce and retail store) channels. vf may not be able to manage its brands within and across channels sufficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. vf's results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions, and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs, the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices or excess inventory held by our wholesale customers, which could have a negative impact on future sales, an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf's brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf's reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf's business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf's success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands' images and vf's customers' connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands' images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes, musicians and celebrities and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations, which could adversely affect the images of our brands. vf's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf's business is increasingly seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the calendar year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the calendar year would have a material adverse effect on vf's full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and 10 vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf's profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, rising commodity and conversion costs, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, changes in consumer demand and shifts to online shopping and purchasing. consumers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf's profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its business strategy. one of vf's key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building our lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf's brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores, remodeling and expanding our existing stores and growing our e-commerce business. however, we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. for example: we may have difficulty completing acquisitions or dispositions to reshape our portfolio, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to transform our model to be more consumer- and retail-centric. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, or our wholesale customers may encounter financial difficulties and thus reduce their purchases of vf products. we may not be able to expand our brands in asia or other geographies or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our direct-to-consumer expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. we may not be able to offset rising commodity or conversation costs in our product costs with pricing actions or efficiency improvements. failure to implement our strategic objectives may have a material adverse effect on vf's business. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf's ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage, failure or interruption due to viruses, data security incidents, technical malfunctions, natural disasters or other causes, or in connection with upgrades to our system or the implementation of new systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf's business, including management of inventory, ordering and replenishment of products, manufacturing and distribution or products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its business operations, results of operations or reputation. in the normal course of business, we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. data security attacks are increasingly sophisticated, and if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, or those of our third-party service providers, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive information, including credit card information and personal information. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable and unable to anticipate or detect security breaches and data loss. in addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data security breaches that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. vf and its customers could suffer harm if valuable business data, or employee, customer and other proprietary information were corrupted, lost or accessed or misappropriated by third parties due to a security failure in vf's systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, results in unwanted media attention and lost sales, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become increasingly uncertain, rigorous and complex. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information and we may not be able to comply with new regulations such as the general data protection regulation in the european union and the california consumer privacy act. any failure to comply with the laws and regulations surrounding the protection of personal information could subject us to legal and reputational vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k 11 risk, including significant fines for non-compliance, any of which could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. vf's business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf's hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf's total revenues (approximately 41% in fiscal 2019 ) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf's international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf's international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf's u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the costs of these products are affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf's licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf's acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf's operations and earnings may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. these include the burdens of complying with u.s. and international laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers and the economic uncertainty associated with the pending exit of the united kingdom from the european union ("brexit") or any other similar referendums that may be held. a significant portion of vf's fiscal 2019 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and most of our goods are manufactured outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations and manufacturing products outside the u.s. we cannot predict any changes to u.s. participation in or renegotiations of certain trade agreements or whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., china, the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf's business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf's business or may require us to modify our current business practices. while enactment of any such change is not certain, if such changes were adopted, our costs could increase, which would reduce our earnings. changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which included a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax-deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. the tax act significantly impacted our effective tax rate for the year ended december 2017 as a result of the deemed repatriation tax, and may continue to impact several other elements of our operating model. certain additional provisions of the tax act, such as a minimum tax on foreign earnings, could also apply to vf depending on certain facts and circumstances and, as a result, could increase our effective tax rate. taxes due over a period of time as a result of the new tax law could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due. the new law made broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code and regulatory, administrative and legislative guidance continues to be released. to the extent any future guidance differs from our preliminary interpretation of the law, it could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, many countries in the european union and around the globe have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws. further, organizations such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant 12 vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic u.s. and international tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company petitioned the u.s. tax court to resolve an internal revenue service ("irs") dispute regarding the timing of income inclusion associated with the 2011 timberland acquisition. the company remains confident in our timing and treatment of the income inclusion, and therefore this matter is not reflected in our financial statements. we are vigorously defending our position, and do not expect the resolution to have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. while the irs argues immediate income inclusion, the company's position is to include the income over a period of years. as the matter relates to 2011, nearly half of the timing at dispute has passed with the company including the income, and paying the related tax, on our income tax returns. the company notes that should the irs prevail in this timing matter, the net interest expense would be up to $130 million. further, this timing matter is impacted by the tax act that reduced the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. if the irs is successful, this rate differential would increase tax expense by approximately $136 million. vf's balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf's consolidated statement of income and could be material. vf's policy is to evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill for possible impairment as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of such assets may be below their carrying amount. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in fiscal 2020 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace, or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf's business operations. during fiscal 2019 , approximately 79% of vf's units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central america and the caribbean. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products, or our cost of producing or delivering products and, as a result, our profitability: political or labor instability in countries where vf's facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; changes in local economic conditions in countries where vf's facilities, contractors, and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, such as the west coast dock workers labor dispute that disrupted international trade at seaports, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf's anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf's goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the required labor and expertise; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and, imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf's production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf's revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, although we audit our third-party material suppliers and contracted manufacturing facilities and set strict compliance standards, actions by a third-party supplier or manufacturer that fail to comply could expose vf to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect in our business and operations. vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k 13 our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive national, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws, implements labor or other business practices or takes other actions that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf's merchandise. damage to vf's reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf's reputation. fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf's cost of goods sold or its ability to meet its customers' demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. inflation can also have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials, that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as cotton, dyes and chemical and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the values of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs.in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. for example, periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter can lead to inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers, which can, in turn, negatively affect orders in future seasons. in addition, abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. any and all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a substantial portion of vf's revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf's revenues and profits. a few of vf's customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf's ten largest customers were 19% of total revenues in fiscal 2019 , with our largest customer accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf's major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. the retail industry has experienced financial difficulty that could adversely affect vf's business. recently there have been consolidations, reorganizations, restructurings, bankruptcies and ownership changes in the retail industry. these events individually, and together, could materially, adversely affect vf's business. these changes could impact vf's opportunities in the market and increase vf's reliance on a smaller number of large customers. in the future, retailers are likely to further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations or bankruptcies, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. in addition, consumers have continued to transition away from traditional wholesale retailers to large online retailers. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf's products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf's customers over their suppliers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf's trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. 14 vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k our ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. this could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf's business. vf has a $2.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2023. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements to honor their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf's executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf's business. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. vf's direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (i) u.s. or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf's control, (ii) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (iii) credit card fraud, and (iv) risks related to vf's direct-to-consumer distribution centers and processes. risks specific to vf's e-commerce business also include (i) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (ii) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, (iii) liability for online content, (iv) changing patterns of consumer behavior, and (v) intense competition from online retailers. vf's failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. vf's net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf's trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights, especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf's brands, such as the north face , timberland , vans , jansport , dickies , wrangler and lee , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf's trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf's success. counterfeiting of vf's products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf's revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf's intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf's products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf's ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf's intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf's trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf's trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k 15 there have been, and there may in the future be, opposition and cancellation proceedings from time to time with respect to some of vf's intellectual property rights. in some cases, litigation may be necessary to protect or enforce our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. furthermore, third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, and we may be subject to liability, required to enter into costly license agreements, if available at all, required to rebrand our products and/or prevented from selling some of our products if third parties successfully oppose or challenge our trademarks or successfully claim that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. bringing or defending any such claim, regardless or merit, and whether successful or unsuccessful, could be expensive and time-consuming and have a negative effect on vf's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf's brands. during fiscal 2019 , $95.9 million of vf's revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf's revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and, adhere to vf's global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf's brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee, including through the marketing or products under one of our brand names that do not meet our quality standards, could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf's ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf's distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf's products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf's operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf's distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf's distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf's defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf's business. vf's operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf's future operating results. the relocation of our global headquarters; the north face , jansport , smartwool , altra and eagle creek brands; and vf's global innovation center for technical fabrics and digital lab could adversely affect our operations, operating results and financial condition, as we may experience disruptions to our business and incur additional costs in connection with the relocation. we announced on august 13, 2018 the relocation of our global headquarters to the metro denver area, which will also serve as the home for the north face , jansport , smartwool , altra and eagle creek brands (the relocating brands ) and vf's global innovation center for technical fabrics and digital lab (the innovation center and lab ). the process of moving our headquarters, the relocating brands and the innovation center and lab is inherently complex and not part of our day-to-day operations. the relocation process could cause significant disruption to our operations, cause the temporary diversion of management resources and result in the loss of key employees who have substantial experience and expertise in our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, operating results and financial condition. the need to replace company personnel who do not relocate, train new employees and transition company operating knowledge may cause disruptions in our business. while we have implemented a transition plan to provide for the move of our global headquarters, the relocating brands and the innovation center and lab, including relocation benefits for employees who may be transferring, and severance and retention benefits for employees who will not be continuing with the company after the move, we may encounter difficulties retaining employees who elect to transfer and attracting new talent in the denver area to replace our employees who are unwilling to relocate. we may also experience difficulties in retaining employees who will remain in greensboro during the transition period and who we are relying on to facilitate the transition of operating knowledge. in addition, we may incur additional costs for 16 vf corporation fiscal 2019 form 10-k duplication in staff as we effect the transition. we can give no assurance that the relocation will be completed as planned or within the expected timeframe. in addition, the relocation may involve significant additional costs to us and the expected benefits of the move may not be fully realized due to associated disruption to our operations and personnel. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits we expect to achieve from the spin-off. on may 22, 2019, we completed the spin-off of our jeans business, kontoor brands, inc. ("kontoor brands"). although we believe that the spin-off will enhance our long-term value, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation of our businesses, and the spin-off may adversely affect our business. separating the businesses resulted in two independent, publicly traded companies, each of which is now a smaller, less diversified and more narrowly focused business than before the spin-off, which makes us more vulnerable to changing market and economic conditions. additionally, a potential loss of synergies from separating the businesses could negatively impact the balance sheet, profit margins or earnings of both businesses and the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may not be equal to or greater than the value of vf common stock had the spin-off not occurred. if we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the spin-off, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. the kontoor brands spin-off could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received opinions of tax advisors substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made by us in connection with the delivery of the opinions are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinions. furthermore, the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions, the spin-off transaction and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin- off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of kontoor brands in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of kontoor brands are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the spin-off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with kontoor brands, pursuant to which kontoor brands agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. in addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. certain directors who serve on our board of directors also serve as directors of kontoor brands, and ownership of shares of common stock of kontoor brands following the spin-off by our directors and executive officers, may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest. certain of our directors who serve on our board of directors currently serve on the board of directors of kontoor brands. this may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when our or kontoor brands' management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for us and kontoor brands, including the resolution of any dispute regarding the terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and the relationship between us and kontoor brands after the spin-off or any other commercial agreements entered into in the future between us and kontoor brands. most of our executive officers and non-employee directors currently own shares of the common stock of kontoor brands. the continued ownership of such common stock by our directors and executive officers following the spin-off creates or may create the appearance of a conflict of interest when these directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and kontoor brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf's market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors 8 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf's business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf's revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel and footwear, which is sensitive to global economic conditions and other factors. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the success of vf's business depends on consumer spending on apparel and footwear, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, weather conditions, energy prices, public health issues (including the current covid-19 pandemic), consumer discretionary spending patterns and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf's products are sold. decreased consumer spending could result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from customers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve, adverse economic trends or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending, which could have a material adverse impact on vf. widespread outbreak of an illness or any other public health crisis, including the recent coronavirus (covid-19) global pandemic, could materially and adversely affect, and has materially and adversely affected, our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business has been, and will continue to be, impacted by the effects of the covid-19 global pandemic in countries where we operate or our suppliers, third-party service providers, consumers or customers are located. these effects include recommendations or mandates from governmental authorities to close businesses, limit travel, avoid large gatherings or to self-quarantine, as well as temporary closures and decreased operations of the facilities of our suppliers, service providers and customers. the impacts on us have included, and in the future could include, but are not limited to: significant reductions in demand and significant volatility in demand for our products by consumers and customers resulting in reduced orders, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories, decreased value of inventories and lower gross margins, which may be caused by, among other things: the inability of consumers to purchase our products due to illness, quarantine or other restrictions or out of fear of exposure to covid-19, store closures of our owned stores as well as stores of our customers or reduced store hours across the americas, europe and asia pacific, significant declines in consumer retail store traffic to stores that have reopened, or financial hardship and unemployment, shifts in demand away from consumer discretionary products and reduced options for marketing and promotion of products or other restrictions in connection with the covid-19 pandemic; significant uncertainty and turmoil in global economic and financial market conditions causing, among other things: decreased consumer confidence and decreased consumer spending, now and in the mid and long-term, inability to access financing in the credit and capital markets (including the commercial paper market) at reasonable rates (or at all) in the event we, our customers or suppliers find it desirable to do so, increased exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, and volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use for our products and in our supply chain; inability to meet our consumers' and customers' needs for inventory production and fulfillment due to disruptions in our supply chain and increased costs associated with mitigating the effects of the pandemic caused by, among other things: reduction or loss of workforce due to illness, quarantine or other restrictions or facility closures, scarcity of and/or increased prices for raw materials, scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas, and increased freight and logistics costs, expenses and times; failure of third parties on which we rely, including our suppliers, customers, distributors, service providers and commercial banks, to meet their obligations to us or to timely meet those obligations, or significant disruptions in 8 vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k table of contents their ability to do so, which may be caused by their own financial or operational difficulties, including business failure or insolvency and collectability of existing receivables; and significant changes in the conditions in markets in which we do business, including quarantines, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities and restrict our employees' ability to perform necessary business functions, including operations necessary for the design, development, production, distribution, sale, marketing and support of our products. any of these impacts could place limitations on our ability to execute on our business plan and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to monitor the situation and may adjust our current policies and procedures as more information and guidance become available regarding the evolving situation. the impact of covid-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this risk factors section, any of which could have a material effect on us. this situation is changing rapidly and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf's success depends on its ability to gauge consumer preferences and product trends, and to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf's ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and product trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis; and, adapt to a more digitally driven consumer landscape. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences, markets and product trends could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, there are significant shifts underway in the wholesale and retail (e-commerce and retail store) channels. vf may not be able to manage its brands within and across channels sufficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. vf's business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf's success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands' images and vf's customers' connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands' images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes, musicians and celebrities and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality sponsorships and endorsers could harm our business. in addition, actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations, which could adversely affect the images of our brands. vf's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf's business is seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the calendar year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the calendar year would have a material adverse effect on vf's full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf's profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, rising commodity and conversion costs, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, changes in consumer demand and shifts to online shopping and purchasing. consumers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf's profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its business strategy. one of vf's key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building our lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf's brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k 9 table of contents opening new stores, remodeling and expanding our existing stores and growing our e-commerce business. however, we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. for example: we may have difficulty completing acquisitions or dispositions to reshape our portfolio, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration, or it may disrupt our current business. we may not be able to transform our model to be more consumer- and retail-centric. we may not be able to transform our model to be more digitally focused. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, or our wholesale customers may encounter financial difficulties and thus reduce their purchases of vf products. we may not be able to expand our brands in asia or other geographies or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our direct-to-consumer expansion goals, including in e-commerce or other new channels, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations, operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably, adapt our business model or develop relationships with consumers for e-commerce or other new channels. we may not be able to offset rising commodity or conversion costs in our product costs with pricing actions or efficiency improvements. failure to implement our strategic objectives may have a material adverse effect on vf's business. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf's ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage, failure or interruption due to viruses, data security incidents, technical malfunctions, natural disasters or other causes, or in connection with upgrades to our system or the implementation of new systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf's business, including our reputation, management of inventory, ordering and replenishment of products, manufacturing and distribution of products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its business operations, results of operations or reputation. in the normal course of business, we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. data security breaches are increasingly sophisticated, and are difficult to detect for long periods of time. accordingly, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, or those of our third-party service providers, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive information, including credit card information and personal information. we have implemented systems and processes designed to protect against unauthorized access to or use of personal information, and rely on encryption and authentication technology to effectively secure transmission of confidential customer information, including credit card information. despite these security measures, there is no guarantee that they are adequate and our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable and unable to anticipate or detect security breaches and data loss. in addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data security breaches that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. vf and its customers could suffer harm if valuable business data, or employee, customer and other proprietary information were corrupted, lost or accessed or misappropriated by third parties due to a security failure in vf's systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, result in unwanted media attention and lost sales, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become increasingly uncertain, rigorous and complex. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information and we may not be able to comply with new regulations such as the general data protection regulation in the european union and the california consumer privacy act. any failure to comply with the laws and regulations surrounding the protection of personal information could subject us to legal and reputational risk, including significant fines and/or litigation for non-compliance, any of which could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. in addition, our existing insurance policies may not reimburse us for all of the damages that we might incur as a result of a security breach. vf's business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf's hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf's total revenues (approximately 47% in fiscal 2020 ) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf's international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf's international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf's u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the costs of these products are affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf's licensing revenue is derived 10 vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k table of contents from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf's acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf's operations and earnings may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. these include the burdens of complying with u.s. and international laws and regulations, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf's business or may require us to modify our current business practices. while enactment of any such change is not certain, if such changes were adopted, our costs could increase, which would reduce our earnings. changes to u.s. or international trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations or our failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business, as well as any negative sentiment toward the u.s. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we conduct our business. it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with any such changes. as a result of recent policy changes of the u.s. government and recent u.s. government proposals, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy has in the past and could continue to trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain u.s. goods. vf, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the u.s. and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). such changes have the potential to adversely impact the u.s. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the united kingdom's impending departure from the european union could harm our business and financial results. the united kingdom held a referendum on june 23, 2016 in which a majority of voters voted to exit the european union ( brexit ) and on march 29, 2017, the united kingdom submitted a formal notification of its intention to withdraw from the european union pursuant to article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom ceased to be a member state of the european union. european union law applicable to the united kingdom continues to apply to and in the united kingdom for the duration of a transition period, which is presently scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020 (the transition period ). during the transition period, the european union and the united kingdom will negotiate the terms of their future relationship. there can be no assurances that such negotiations will be successful or certainty that european union law will continue to apply in and to the united kingdom following the expiration of the transition period. until expiration of the transition period and the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom is established, it is difficult to anticipate brexit's potential impact. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the united kingdom makes to retain access to european union markets beyond the transition period. brexit could adversely affect european and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k 11 table of contents changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and tax liabilities and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act ( u.s. tax act ), which included a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax-deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. taxes related to the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings due over a period of time could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due. in addition, regulatory, administrative and legislative guidance related to the u.s. tax act continues to be released. to the extent any future guidance differs from our interpretation of the law, it could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. the swiss government enacted the federal act on tax reform and ahv financing ( swiss tax act ) which became effective on january 1, 2020. the swiss tax act was enacted to ensure that switzerland stays in conformity with the european union ( eu ) as well as organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) standards on international taxation. the impact of the swiss tax act has been reported based on the official initial guidelines provided by the swiss federal and cantonal authorities. future guidance that differs from our preliminary interpretation or any negative reaction from the eu member states to the swiss tax act, could have material effect on our financial position and results of operations. the eu has also developed a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes (referred to as the blacklist ). we continuously monitor the blacklist to determine any potential impact to vf. in addition, many countries in the eu and around the globe have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws. further, organizations such as the oecd have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. more specifically, the oecd has proposed an approach to address tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy. the ultimate outcome of these proposals and the agreed upon solution that is enacted into law in each country may result in a material financial impact to vf. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities from new or evolving government or judicial interpretation of existing tax laws. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of u.s. and local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic u.s. and international tax audits and court proceedings. in particular, tax authorities and the courts have increased their focus on income earned in no- or low-tax jurisdictions or income that is not taxed in any jurisdiction. tax authorities have also become skeptical of special tax rulings provided to companies offering lower taxes than may be applicable in other countries. for example, vf was granted a ruling which lowered the effective income tax rate on taxable earnings for years 2010 through 2014 under belgium's excess profit tax regime. in february 2015, the eu opened a state aid investigation into belgium's rulings. on january 11, 2016, the eu announced its decision that these rulings were illegal and ordered that tax benefits granted under these rulings should be collected from the affected companies, including vf. on march 22, 2016, the belgium government filed an appeal seeking annulment of the eu decision. additionally, on june 21, 2016, vf europe bvba filed its own application for annulment of the eu decision. on february 14, 2019 the general court annulled the eu decision and on april 26, 2019 the eu appealed the general court's annulment. both listed requests for annulment remain open and unresolved. additionally, the eu has initiated proceedings related to individual rulings granted by belgium, including the ruling granted to vf. also, vf petitioned the u.s. tax court to resolve an internal revenue service ("irs") dispute regarding the timing of income inclusion associated with the 2011 timberland acquisition. vf remains confident in our timing and treatment of the income inclusion, and therefore this matter is not reflected in our financial statements. we are vigorously defending our position, and do not expect the resolution to have a material adverse impact on vf's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. while the irs argues immediate income inclusion, vf's position is to include the income over a period of years. as the matter relates to 2011, nearly half of the timing in dispute has passed vf including the income, and paying the related tax, on our income tax returns. vf notes that should the irs prevail in this timing matter, the net interest expense would be up to $158 million . further, this timing matter is impacted by the u.s. tax act that reduced the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. if the irs is successful, this rate differential would increase tax expense by approximately $136 million . although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings, or court interpretations (involving vf or other companies with similar tax profiles) may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. vf's balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf's consolidated statement of income and could be material. vf's policy is to evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill for possible impairment as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of such assets may be below their carrying amount. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and 12 vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k table of contents intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in fiscal 2021 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace, or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf's business operations. during fiscal 2020 , approximately 94% of vf's units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in mexico, honduras and the dominican republic. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products, or our cost of producing or delivering products and, as a result, our profitability: political or labor instability in countries where vf's facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; changes in local economic conditions in countries where vf's facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; public health issues, such as the current covid-19 pandemic, could result in (or continue to result in) closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or lengthier inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf's anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health- and safety-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf's goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the required labor and expertise; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and, imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf's production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf's revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, although we audit our third-party material suppliers and contracted manufacturing facilities and set strict compliance standards, actions by a third-party supplier or manufacturer that fail to comply could expose vf to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect in our business and operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, consumer protection, corporate governance, competition, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive national, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, safety, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws, implements labor or other business practices or takes other actions that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf's merchandise. damage to vf's reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf's reputation. our international operations are also subject to compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. although we have policies and procedures to address compliance with the fcpa and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, agents and other partners will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k 13 table of contents fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf's cost of goods sold or its ability to meet its customers' demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns, public health issues (such as the current covid-19 pandemic) and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. inflation can also have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. for example, the cost of the materials, that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as cotton, dyes and chemical and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the values of the u.s. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. for example, periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter can lead to reduced consumer spending that negatively impacts vf's direct-to-consumer business, and inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers, which can, in turn, negatively affect orders in future seasons. in addition, abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. any and all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. climate change and increased focus by governmental and non-governmental organizations, customers, consumers and investors on sustainability issues, including those related to climate change, may adversely affect our business and financial results and damage our reputation. climate change is occurring around the world and may impact our business in numerous ways. such change could lead to an increase in raw material and packaging prices, reduced availability, for example, due to water shortages which could adversely impact raw material availability. increased frequency of extreme weather (storms and floods) could cause increased incidence of disruption to the production and distribution of our products and an adverse impact on consumer demand and spending. a substantial portion of vf's revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf's revenues and profits. a few of vf's customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf's ten largest customers were 17% of total revenues in fiscal 2020 , with our largest customer accounting for 3% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf's major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. the retail industry has experienced financial difficulty that could adversely affect vf's business. recently there have been consolidations, reorganizations, restructurings, bankruptcies and ownership changes in the retail industry. in addition, the covid-19 pandemic has resulted in closed stores, and reduced consumer traffic and purchasing, as governments impose mandatory business closures and similar measures to curtail the spread of the disease, and consumers limit shopping due to illness or to avoid exposure. these events individually, and together, could have (and, in the case of the covid-19 pandemic, have had) a material, adverse effect on vf's business. these changes could impact vf's opportunities in the market and increase vf's reliance on a smaller number of large customers. in the future, retailers are likely to further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations or bankruptcies, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. in addition, consumers have continued to transition away from traditional wholesale retailers to large online retailers. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf's products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf's customers over their suppliers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions, including as a result of the current covid-19 pandemic, could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf's trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. our ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. future volatility in the financial and credit markets, including the recent volatility due, in part, to the current covid-19 pandemic, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises, including upon maturity, or on terms that would be acceptable to us. this 14 vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k table of contents disruption or volatility could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. uncertainty regarding rates may make borrowing or refinancing our indebtedness more expensive or difficult to achieve on terms we consider favorable. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf's business. vf has a $2.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2023. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements could be impaired in honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. vf's indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent vf from fulfilling its financial obligations, and vf may not be able to maintain its current credit ratings, may not continue to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock and may not remain in compliance with existing debt covenants. as of march 28, 2020, vf had approximately $3.8 billion of debt outstanding. following the end of the fiscal year, vf issued $3.0 billion of senior notes in a transaction that closed on april 23, 2020 and vf used some of the net proceeds from that offering to repay its borrowings under its revolving credit facility. vf's debt and interest payment requirements could have important consequences on its business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, it could: require vf to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to repaying its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, dividends, repurchase vf's common stock and for other general corporate purposes; limit vf's flexibility in planning for or reacting to general adverse economic conditions or changes in its business and the industries in which it operates; place vf at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less indebtedness outstanding; and negatively affect vf's credit ratings and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in vf's debt documents, its ability to borrow additional funds. in addition, vf may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, repurchase common stock or fund other activities for general business purposes. if vf incurs additional indebtedness, it may limit vf's ability to access the debt capital markets or other forms of financing in the future and may result in increased borrowing costs. although vf has historically declared and paid quarterly cash dividends on its common stock and has been authorized to repurchase its stock subject to certain limitations under its share repurchase programs, any determinations by the board of directors to continue to declare and pay cash dividends on vf's common stock or to repurchase vf's common stock will be based primarily upon vf's financial condition, results of operations and business requirements, its access to debt capital markets or other forms of financing, the price of its common stock in the case of the repurchase program and the board of directors' continuing determination that the repurchase programs and the declaration and payment of dividends are in the best interests of vf's stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. in the event vf does not declare and pay a quarterly dividend or discontinues its share repurchases, vf's stock price could be adversely affected. vf is required to comply with certain financial and other restrictive debt covenants in its debt documents. failure by vf to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the company if the lenders declare any outstanding obligations to be immediately due and payable. the loss of members of vf's executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf's business. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. vf's direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (i) u.s. or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf's control, (ii) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (iii) credit card fraud, and (iv) risks related to vf's direct-to-consumer distribution centers and processes. risks specific to vf's e-commerce business also include (i) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (ii) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, (iii) liability for online content, (iv) changing patterns of consumer behavior, and (v) intense competition from online retailers. vf's failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k 15 table of contents vf's net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf's trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights, especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf's brands, such as the north face , timberland , vans , jansport and dickies , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf's trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf's success. counterfeiting of vf's products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf's revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf's intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf's products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf's ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf's intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf's trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf's trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. there have been, and there may in the future be, opposition and cancellation proceedings from time to time with respect to some of vf's intellectual property rights. in some cases, litigation may be necessary to protect or enforce our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. furthermore, third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, and we may be subject to liability, required to enter into costly license agreements, if available at all, required to rebrand our products and/or prevented from selling some of our products if third parties successfully oppose or challenge our trademarks or successfully claim that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. bringing or defending any such claim, regardless of merit, and whether successful or unsuccessful, could be expensive and time-consuming and have a negative effect on vf's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf's brands. during fiscal 2020 , $57.4 million of vf's revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf's revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and, adhere to vf's global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf's brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee, including through the marketing of products under one of our brand names that do not meet our quality standards, could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf's ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf's distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf's products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf's operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters or other events outside vf's control affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance under our property and cyber insurance policies, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf's distribution facilities. in addition, vf's distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with 16 vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k table of contents our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf's defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf's business. vf's operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf's future operating results. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits we expect to achieve from the spin-off. on may 22, 2019, we completed the spin-off of our jeans business, kontoor brands, inc. ("kontoor brands"). although we believe that the spin-off will enhance our long-term value, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation of our businesses, and the spin-off may adversely affect our business. separating the businesses resulted in two independent, publicly traded companies, each of which is now a smaller, less diversified and more narrowly focused business than before the spin-off, which makes us more vulnerable to changing market and economic conditions. additionally, a potential loss of synergies from separating the businesses could negatively impact the balance sheet, profit margins or earnings of both businesses and the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may not be equal to or greater than the value of vf common stock had the spin-off not occurred. if we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the spin-off, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. the kontoor brands spin-off could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received opinions of tax advisors substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made by us in connection with the delivery of the opinions are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinions. furthermore, the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions, the spin-off transaction and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of kontoor brands in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of kontoor brands are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the spin-off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with kontoor brands, pursuant to which kontoor brands agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. in addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. certain directors who serve on our board of directors also serve as directors of kontoor brands, and ownership of shares of common stock of kontoor brands following the spin-off by our directors and executive officers, may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest. certain of our directors who serve on our board of directors currently serve on the board of directors of kontoor brands. this may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when our or kontoor brands' management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for us and kontoor brands, including the resolution of any dispute regarding the terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and the relationship between us and kontoor brands after the spin-off or any other commercial agreements entered into in the future between us and kontoor brands. some of our executive officers and non-employee directors currently own shares of the common stock of kontoor brands. the continued ownership of such common stock by our directors and executive officers following the spin-off creates or may create the appearance of a conflict of interest when these directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and kontoor brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf's market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report. vf corporation fiscal 2020 form 10-k 47 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of the company market risks is incorporated herein by reference to the section risk management of the management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial 12 table of contents condition in the 2002 annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of the company market risks is incorporated herein by reference to the section risk management of the management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial 12 condition in the 2002 annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of the company market risks is incorporated herein by reference to risk management in the management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition in the 2003 annual report, a copy of which is filed as exhibit 13 to this report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated herein by reference to risk management in the management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition in the 2004 annual report, a copy of which is filed as exhibit 13 to this report. 17risk factors risk factors the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. risks specific to vf corporation a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 34% of revenues in fiscal 2005, with wal-mart accounting for 16% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and vf does not have long-term agreements with any of its customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to decrease significantly the number of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes, such as the merger of federated department stores, inc. and the may department stores company and the merger of sears, roebuck and company and kmart holding corporation in 2005. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target market. these developments could decrease the number of stores that carry vf products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could both impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by its customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. vf sells a large portion of its products on open account to national and regional department, mid-tier and mass market stores in the united states. the financial difficulties of a customer could result in reduced business with that customer. vf may also assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial difficulty. if these developments occur, vf inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on its trade accounts receivable from one of its major customers could substantially reduce vf income and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous domestic and foreign brands and manufacturers of apparel. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on its ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, quality products; maintain favorable brand recognition; appropriately price products; provide effective marketing support; 14 table of contents ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its products at retail. vf attempts to minimize risks associated with competition, including risks related to changing style trends and product acceptance, by studying retail sales trends. the failure, however, to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if vf misjudges fashion trends and market conditions, vf could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products that it may have to sell at a loss and missed opportunities with others that may result in lost sales. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. vf industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause vf to reduce its sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause vf gross margin to decline if vf is unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in its operating costs. if vf sales prices decline and vf fails to sufficiently reduce its product costs or operating expenses or increase its selling prices, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of vf key strategic objectives is growth. vf seeks to grow through organic growth and acquisitions, building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding its share with winning customers, stretching its brands and customers to new geographies, fueling the growth by leveraging its supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding its direct-to-consumer business and building new growth enablers by identifying and developing high potential employees. vf may have difficulty identifying acquisition targets, and it may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. vf may not be able to achieve planned cost savings from its ongoing businesses. vf may not be able to expand its share with winning customers, expand its brands geographically or achieve the expected results from its supply chain initiatives. vf may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified managers. the failure to implement its growth strategies may have a material adverse effect on vf business. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market would be adversely affected. vf relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer- controlled and automated equipment, which means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. vf maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. 15 table of contents vf ability to effectively manage and operate its business depends significantly on its information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its finished products and raw materials, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2005, in excess of 65% of vf products sold were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in the far east, indian subcontinent, caribbean and central america, and more than 30% were produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in europe, mexico and the caribbean. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect vf ability to produce or deliver its products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of vf products and raw materials to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for vf anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars, bird flu, mad cow and hoof and mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and vf ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit vf ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; and imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. vf requires third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, vf requires all suppliers making vf-branded apparel, whether directly for vf or for its licensees, to comply with its terms of engagement and global compliance principles. vf staff and third parties retained for such purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of vf independent manufacturers and owned and operated facilities to determine compliance. however, vf does not control its independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of vf manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to vf could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and vf reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if vf is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products. 16 table of contents vf often places orders for products with its manufacturers before its customers orders are firm. therefore, if vf fails to accurately forecast customer demand, vf may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to its customers. factors that could affect vf ability to accurately forecast demand for its products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; vf failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance for its new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if vf underestimates the demand for its products, its manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet vf customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of its products and its ability to recognize revenue, as well as damage to its reputation and customer relationships. there can be no assurance that vf will be able to successfully manage inventory demand to meet future order and reorder requirements. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights. with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands, vf is more susceptible to infringement of its intellectual property rights. some of vf brands, such as the north face , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of such branded products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. imitation or counterfeiting of vf products or infringement of its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of its brands or otherwise adversely affect vf revenues. actions vf has taken to establish and protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. 17 table of contents the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf or in trademarks that are similar to vf or trademarks that vf licenses and/or markets. vf may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to its satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is, from time to time, involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of its intellectual property. vf obtains licensing royalties and relies on its licensees to maintain the value of its brands. although only a relatively small portion of vf revenues, $74 million or 1.1%, were derived from licensing royalties in 2005, and although vf generally has significant control over its licensee products and advertising, vf relies on its licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of its licensees to successfully market licensed products or vf inability to replace its existing licensees could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of its other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although vf makes every attempt to protect its brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its products, vf cannot completely control the use by its licensees of each of its licensed brands. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand. risks applicable to the apparel industry vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence. the apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is influenced by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and wages), business conditions, interest rates, energy prices, availability of credit and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions, recession or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. a significant decline in the securities markets could materially affect consumer confidence, the financial condition of vf customers, and its operating costs through higher contributions to its pension plan. in addition, natural disasters, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war or terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase costs and cause delay. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. in the future, vf may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to its customers. vf business is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. approximately 25% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the united states dollar. assets and liabilities in these foreign businesses are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, vf sources and manufactures much of its products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which vf international businesses sell products. furthermore, vf international sales and licensing revenue are derived from sales in foreign currencies. although vf hedges some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. vf ability to sell products in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. vf ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in its existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. vf cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union, japan or other countries upon the import or export of its products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require vf to modify its current business practices. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated herein by reference to risk management in the management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition in the 2005 annual report, a copy of which is filed as exhibit 13 to this report.risk factors the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. risks specific to vf corporation a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf profits. 14 a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 30% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 13.2% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to decrease significantly the number of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes, such as the merger of federated department stores, inc. and the may department stores company in 2005 and the merger of sears, roebuck and company and kmart holding corporation in 2005. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target market. these developments could decrease the number of stores that carry vf products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could both impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by its customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. vf sells a large portion of its products on open account to national and regional department, mid-tier and mass market stores in the united states. the financial difficulties of a customer could result in reduced business with that customer. vf may also assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial difficulty. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable from a major customer could substantially reduce vf income and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous domestic and foreign brands and manufacturers of apparel. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on its ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, quality products; maintain favorable brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide effective marketing support; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its products at retail. we attempt to minimize risks associated with competition, including risks related to changing style trends and product acceptance, by studying consumer and retail sales trends. the failure, however, to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss or missed opportunities with other products that may result in lost sales. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause vf gross margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable 15 reductions in its operating costs. if vf sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions, building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands and customers to new geographies, fueling the growth by leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding our direct-to-consumer business and building new growth enablers by identifying and developing high potential employees. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses or achieve planned cost savings from ongoing businesses. we may have difficulty identifying acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified managers. the failure to implement its growth strategies may have a material adverse effect on vf business. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market would be adversely affected. vf relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on its information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its finished products and raw materials, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2006, in excess of 65% of vf products sold were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia and more than 30% were produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities primarily located in europe, mexico and central america. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: 16 political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars, bird flu, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; and imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we require all suppliers making vf-branded apparel, whether directly for vf or for its licensees, to comply with vf terms of engagement and global compliance principles. our staff and third parties retained for such purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of vf owned and operated facilities and of independent contractors manufacturing product for vf to determine compliance. however, we do not control independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to vf could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and vf reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if vf is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. therefore, if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance for new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. 17 inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and customer relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory demand to meet future order and reorder requirements. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights. with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands, vf is more susceptible to infringement of its intellectual property rights. some of vf brands, such as the north face , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of such branded products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. imitation or counterfeiting of vf products or infringement of its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or in trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses and/or markets. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of its intellectual property. vf obtains licensing royalties and relies on its licensees to maintain the value of its brands. although only a relatively small portion of vf revenues, $78 million or 1.3%, was derived from licensing royalties in 2006 and although vf generally has significant control over its licensee products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of its other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; 18 manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we make every attempt to protect vf brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its products, we cannot completely control the use by our licensees of licensed vf brands. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand. risks applicable to the apparel industry vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence. the apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is influenced by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and wages), business conditions, interest rates, energy prices, availability of credit and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions, recession or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. a significant decline in the securities markets could materially affect consumer confidence, the financial condition of vf customers and vf operating costs through higher contributions to its pension plan. in addition, natural disasters, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war or terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase costs and cause delay. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. in the future, vf may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to its customers. vf business is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. approximately 26% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the united states dollar. assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in these foreign businesses are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, vf sources and manufactures most of its products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. furthermore, vf international sales and licensing revenue are derived from sales in foreign currencies. although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf ability to sell products in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. 19 our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union, japan or other countries upon the import or export of its products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. 16 risks specific to vf corporation a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 27% of total revenues in fiscal 2007, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 12% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to decrease significantly the number of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes, such as the merger of federated department stores, inc. and the may department stores company in 2005 and the merger of sears, roebuck and company and kmart holding corporation in 2005. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target market. these developments could reduce the number of stores that carry vf products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could both impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by its customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. the financial difficulties of a customer could result in reduced business with that customer. vf may also assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial difficulty. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable from a major customer could substantially reduce vf income and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous brands and manufacturers of apparel. some of our competitors may be larger and have more resources than vf in certain product categories. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on its ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, quality products; maintain favorable brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide effective marketing support; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss or missed opportunities that may result in lost sales. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. 17 the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause vf gross margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in operating costs. if vf sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options, although we anticipate being able to renew those licenses before the agreements expire. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets, could have a material adverse effect on vf operating results. vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions, building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands and customers to new geographies, fueling the growth by leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding our direct-to-consumer business and building new growth enablers by identifying and developing high potential employees. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses or achieve planned cost savings from ongoing businesses. we may have difficulty identifying acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified managers. the failure to implement its growth strategies may have a material adverse effect on vf business. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market would be adversely affected. vf relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on its information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. moreover, vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2007, approximately 74% of vf products sold were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated 18 manufacturing facilities located in eastern europe, mexico and central america. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars, bird flu, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we require all suppliers making vf-branded apparel, whether directly for vf or for its licensees, to comply with vf terms of engagement and global compliance principles. our staff and third parties retained for such purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of vf owned and operated facilities and those of independent contractors manufacturing product for vf to determine compliance. however, we do not control independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to vf could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and vf reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if vf is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. therefore, if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; 19 weak economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and customer relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory demand to meet future order and reorder requirements. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights. with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands, vf is more susceptible to infringement of its intellectual property rights. some of vf brands, such as the north face , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of such products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. infringement or counterfeiting of vf products or its other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or in trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses and/or markets. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of its intellectual property. vf obtains licensing royalties and relies on its licensees to maintain the value of its brands. only a relatively small portion of vf revenues, $78 million or 1.1%, was derived from licensing royalties in 2007. although vf generally has significant control over its licensee products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees 20 could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we make every attempt to protect vf brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating loss in vf consolidated statement of income. under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. the excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. the goodwill is then assigned to a business unit or reporting unit within vf, which depends on whether the acquired business will be operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an existing vf business unit. at december 2007, vf had approximately $1.0 billion of trademark intangible assets and $1.3 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. these assets are not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. in addition, vf had approximately $0.5 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized under current accounting rules. the combined amounts represent 42% of vf total assets and 76% of common stockholders equity. trademark intangible assets that are not amortized and goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually. the impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of vf business units and related intangible assets, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on forecasted revenues and cash flows that will be derived from a business unit or trademark. intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. if the carrying value of goodwill or of intangible assets were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. we have not had any significant impairment charges. however, a future impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. risks applicable to the apparel industry vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is influenced by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and wages), business conditions, interest rates, energy prices, availability of credit and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions, recession or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. a significant decline in the securities markets could materially affect consumer confidence, the financial condition of vf 21 customers and vf operating costs through higher contributions to its pension plan. in addition, natural disasters, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war or terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase costs and cause service delays. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. in the future, vf may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to its customers. vf business is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. approximately 28% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in these foreign businesses are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, vf sources and manufactures most of its products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. furthermore, vf international sales and licensing revenue are derived from sales in foreign currencies. although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf ability to sell products in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union, japan or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. risks specific to vf corporation vf business could be adversely affected by reduced consumer spending and consumer confidence. the global credit crisis that began in 2008 is having a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders from suppliers like vf, or order cancelations. reduced sales by some of our wholesale customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in various retailers experiencing significant financial difficulties. financial difficulties of customers could result in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial difficulty may result. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer through vf-operated retail stores and websites. it is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, may lead to reduced purchases of vf products through vf-operated retail stores and websites. this could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 26% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 11% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to decrease significantly the number of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target market. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, increased ownership concentration within the retail industry, increased credit 13 exposure or increased retailer leverage over their suppliers. these changes could both impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous brands and manufacturers of apparel. some of our competitors may be larger and have more resources than vf in certain product categories. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on its ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, quality products; maintain favorable brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide effective marketing support; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss or missed opportunities that may result in lost sales. vf business is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. approximately 30% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in these foreign businesses are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, vf sources and manufactures most of its products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause vf gross margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in operating costs. if vf sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase costs and cause service delays. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. in the future, vf may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to its customers. 14 vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions, building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands and customers to new geographies, fueling the growth by leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding our direct-to-consumer business and building new growth enablers by identifying and developing high potential employees. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses or achieve planned cost savings from ongoing businesses. we may have difficulty identifying acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified managers. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. because of recent conditions in global credit markets, vf may have difficulty accessing the capital markets for short or long-term financing. during the last several months, the global capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme levels of volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. vf uses short-term commercial paper borrowings primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during 2008, and all commercial paper borrowings were repaid by the end of the year. in addition, vf may access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for vf. vf has committed domestic and international bank credit facilities. because of the continued distress in the global capital markets, one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. if we were to have difficulty in accessing the short or long-term capital markets, vf has $1.3 billion of committed domestic and international bank credit facilities that expire in october 2012. continued distress in the financial markets could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market would be adversely affected. vf relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution 15 facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on its information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. moreover, vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2008, approximately 77% of vf products sold were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in eastern europe, mexico and central america. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict, which could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars, bird flu, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we require all suppliers making vf-branded apparel, whether directly for vf or for its licensees, to comply with vf terms of engagement and global compliance principles. our staff and third parties retained for such purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of vf owned and operated facilities and those of independent contractors manufacturing product for vf to determine compliance. however, we do not control independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to vf could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and vf reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if vf is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. therefore, if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience 16 excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancelations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and customer relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory demand to meet future order and reorder requirements. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights. with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands, vf is more susceptible to infringement of its intellectual property rights. some of vf brands, such as the north face , vans , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of such products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. infringement or counterfeiting of vf products or its other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or in trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses and/or markets. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancelation proceedings with respect to some items of its intellectual property. vf obtains licensing royalties and relies on its licensees to maintain the value of its brands. only a relatively small portion of vf revenues, $81.0 million or 1.1%, was derived from licensing royalties in 2008. although vf generally has significant control over its licensee products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees could adversely affect vf revenues, both 17 directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we make every attempt to protect vf brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income. under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. the excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. the goodwill is then assigned to a business unit or reporting unit within vf, which depends on whether the acquired business will be operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an existing vf business unit. at december 2008, vf had approximately $0.9 billion of trademark intangible assets and $1.3 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. these assets are not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. in addition, vf had approximately $0.4 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized under current accounting rules. the combined amounts represent 42% of vf total assets and 75% of common stockholders equity. trademark intangible assets that are not amortized and goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually. the impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of vf business units and related intangible assets, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on forecasted revenues and cash flows that will be derived from a business unit or trademark. intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. the fair value of a business unit could decline if forecasted revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global recession or other causes. if the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the consolidated statement of income. we have not had any impairment charges in the last three years, other than the 2006 loss on disposal of our intimate apparel business (accounted for as discontinued operations). however, changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. vf defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of 2008 due primarily to the effects of the global financial and credit market crisis that began in 2008. this resulted in a charge to common stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet and a significant increase in our 2009 pension expense. if the pension plan investments were to decline in value, or if the level of interest rates were to decline from the current level, the pension plans would be further underfunded, resulting in an additional charge to common stockholders equity and higher pension expense in future years. vf qualified defined benefit pension plan swung from being overfunded at the end of 2007 to significantly underfunded at the end of 2008. this underfunded status was due primarily to the decline in the value of pension plan assets with the general turmoil in the global securities markets in 2008. the underfunded status resulted in recognition of $414.9 million of liabilities and a $291.0 million after-tax charge to common stockholders equity at the end of 2008. for financial accounting, differences between actual investment returns and the actuarially assumed investment return are deferred and amortized to future years pension cost. our pension cost will increase from $10.8 million in 2008 to approximately $98 million in 2009 primarily due to amortization of these deferred actuarial losses. 18 the level of interest rates drives the discount rate used to value the plans projected benefit obligations. in general, a decrease in interest rates would result in a greater present value of future benefit obligations, while an increase in interest rates would result in a smaller present value of future benefit obligations. a further decrease in the value of pension plan assets or a decrease in interest rates could result in a further decline in the plans funded status. in that case, vf would recognize additional liabilities and additional charges to common stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet and higher pension expense in future years. if current market conditions persist, vf would be required to make substantial cash funding contributions to the plan, beginning in 2010, to return the plan to a fully funded status over the next few years. risks applicable to the apparel industry vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is influenced by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and wages), business conditions, interest rates, housing costs, energy prices, availability of credit and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions, recession or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. a significant decline in the securities markets could materially affect consumer confidence, the financial condition of vf customers and vf operating costs through higher contributions to its pension plan. in addition, natural disasters, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war or terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf ability to sell products in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is influenced by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and wages), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, housing costs, the level of securities markets, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. consumer spending was constrained during 2009, and a further decline in general economic conditions could further reduce the level of consumer spending. we do not expect a significant improvement in business conditions and consumer spending in the near future. the effects of a return to recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on vf. the global recession with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values had a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to suppliers like vf, or order cancellations. reduced sales by some of our wholesale customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in various retailers experiencing significant financial difficulties. financial difficulties of customers could result in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial difficulty may result. if these developments occur, our inability 14 to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer through vf-operated retail stores and e-commerce websites. it is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, could lead to reduced purchases of vf products through vf-operated retail stores and websites. this could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous brands and manufacturers of apparel. some of our competitors may be larger and have more resources than vf in certain product categories. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on its ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, quality products; maintain favorable brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide effective marketing support; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its products at retail. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss or missed opportunities that may result in lost sales. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if vf is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. therefore, if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third 15 party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and customer relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory levels to exactly meet future order and reorder requirements. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 27% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 11% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to decrease significantly the number of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target market. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, increased ownership concentration within the retail industry, increased credit exposure or increased retailer leverage over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause vf gross margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in operating costs. if vf sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs and cause service delays. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. in the future, vf may not be able to pass higher costs on to its customers. vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions by building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands and customers to new geographies, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding our direct-to-consumer business and identifying and developing high potential employees. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses or achieve planned cost savings. we may have difficulty identifying acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified managers. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. 16 vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. approximately one-third of vf income is earned in international jurisdictions. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the united states. in recent months, the president and others in his administration have proposed changes in u.s. income tax laws that could, among other things, accelerate the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limit foreign tax credits. although such proposals have been deferred, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2009, approximately 84% of vf products sold were produced by and purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in mexico, central america, poland and the middle east. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict, which could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. 17 our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. further, violations of such laws and regulations could affect the availability of inventory, thereby affecting our net sales. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we require all suppliers making vf-branded apparel, whether directly for vf or for its licensees, to comply with vf terms of engagement and global compliance principles. our staff and third parties retained for such purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of vf owned and operated facilities and those of independent contractors manufacturing product for vf to determine compliance. however, we do not control independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to vf could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and vf reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. approximately 30% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing these risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. vf may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. during the last two years, the global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme levels of volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. 18 although vf had over $700 million of cash and equivalents at the end of 2009, we typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last two years, and all commercial paper borrowings were repaid by the end of each year. in addition, vf may access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be reliable sources of financing for vf. vf has committed domestic and international bank credit facilities. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. if we were to have difficulty in accessing the short or long-term capital markets, vf has $1.3 billion of committed domestic and international bank credit facilities that expire in october 2012. continued distress in the financial markets could, however, impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights. with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands in recent years, vf is more susceptible to infringement of its intellectual property rights. some of vf brands, such as the north face , vans , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of such products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not maintain the value of vf brands. during 2009, $77.2 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both 19 directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we make every attempt to protect vf brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. moreover, vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. 20 vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. the excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired is goodwill. the goodwill is then assigned to a business unit or reporting unit within vf, which depends on how the acquired business will be operated after integration into vf. we evaluate trademark intangible assets that are not amortized and goodwill for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methodologies to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. during 2009, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling $122.0 million. at december 2009, vf had approximately $1.0 billion of indefinite-lived trademark intangible assets and $1.4 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. these assets are not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. in addition, vf had approximately $0.5 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized under current accounting rules. goodwill and intangible assets combined represent 45% of vf total assets and 76% of stockholders equity. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2010 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and ebitda and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. specifically regarding our contemporary brands coalition, the recession of the last two years has particularly impacted the upper tier or premium department and specialty store channel of distribution and, in many cases, products sold through this premium channel. while no impairment is indicated for any of our business units within this coalition, if the premium channel does not improve from recessionary levels or if the growth strategies of our business units are not successful, it is possible that an impairment charge would be required. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of 2009 due primarily to the decline in market value of the plans investment portfolios, resulting from the global financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007. this resulted in recognition of a significant liability representing the underfunded status of our plans and a significant charge to stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheets at the end of 2008 and 2009, as well as a significant increase in our 2009 pension expense. if the pension plans investments were to decline in value or if the level of interest rates were to decline from the current level, the pension plans could be further underfunded, resulting in recognition of additional underfunded liabilities and additional charges to stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheets, higher pension expense and possibly additional cash contributions to fund the plans. vf defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of 2009, resulting in recognition of $238.8 million of pension liabilities at the end of 2009. differences between actual results and amounts estimated using actuarial assumptions (e.g., investment returns, discount rate, mortality) are deferred and amortized in future years pension cost. deferred actuarial losses included in stockholders equity totaled $266.0 million. primarily because of these deferred actuarial losses, our pension cost increased from $10.8 million in 2008 to $98.0 million in 2009. to improve the funded status of our pension plans, we made over $200 million of discretionary contributions to our plans during 2009. 21 a further decrease in the value of our plans assets or a decrease in the discount rate used to value the plans liabilities to participants could result in a further decrease in the plans funded status. in that case, vf would recognize additional pension liabilities and additional charges to stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet and higher pension expense in future years. further, vf could be required to make additional cash funding contributions to return the pension plans to a fully funded status over the next few years. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, availability of credit, housing costs, stock market performance, energy prices and tax rates in the 14 table of contents international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. consumer spending advanced at a relatively slow pace during 2010 following the recessionary conditions of 2008 and early 2009. a decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending. the effects of a return to recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on vf. the global recession with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values had and is continuing to have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to vf, or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce websites. it is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, could lead to a reduction in our direct-to-consumer sales channel. this could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured apparel, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices for fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, with the price of cotton currently having a significant negative impact. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. in addition, increased costs could lead to reduced customer demand. these developments could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous apparel brands and manufacturers. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and geographies. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of most of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, high quality products; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail. 15 table of contents if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could have insufficient levels of inventory that cause us to miss opportunities to make sales, or we could have significant excess inventories of products that we may have to sell at a loss. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 26% of total revenues in fiscal 2010, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 10% of revenues. sales are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, increase ownership concentration within the retail industry, increase credit exposure or increase leverage over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 16 table of contents vf may not succeed in implementing its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions by building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new geographies, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf, expanding our direct-to-consumer business and identifying and developing high potential employees. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified employees. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. approximately 40% of vf net income is earned in international jurisdictions. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the united states. the president and others in his administration have proposed changes in u.s. income tax laws that could, among other things, accelerate the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limit foreign tax credits. although such proposals have been deferred, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2010, approximately 66% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in mexico, central america and the middle east. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; 17 table of contents disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. further, violations of such laws and regulations could affect the availability of inventory, affecting our net sales. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. however, we do not control the practices of our independent manufacturers. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, it could impact vf reputation and relationships. although the loss of a single supplier would not have a significant impact on our operations, it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. approximately 30% of vf total revenues is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategies may not be effective in reducing these risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 table of contents vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. because of conditions in global credit markets, vf may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during the last two years, global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. we typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last three years, and our commercial paper borrowings in 2010 were minimal. in the future, vf may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be reliable sources of financing for vf. vf has domestic and international bank credit facilities. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has $1.3 billion of domestic and international bank credit facilities that expire in october 2012. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf brands, such as the north face , vans , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other 19 table of contents cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2010, $78.0 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we make every attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. moreover, vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the 20 table of contents long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. we evaluate goodwill and trademark intangible assets that are not amortized for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. during 2010 and 2009, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling $201.7 million and $122.0 million, respectively. at december 2010, vf had indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $1.0 billion related to trademarks and $1.2 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. in addition, vf had approximately $0.5 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized. goodwill and intangible assets combined represent 41% of vf total assets and 69% of stockholders equity. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2011 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and ebitda and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of 2010. vf defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $207.4 million at the end of 2010. this underfunding resulted from the decline in market value of the qualified plans investment portfolios resulting from the global financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007 and a reduction in the discount rate used to determine the present value of the plans projected benefit obligations. differences between actual results and amounts estimated using actuarial assumptions (e.g., investment returns, discount rate, mortality) are deferred and amortized as part of future years pension cost. deferred actuarial losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity totaled $415.2 million at december 2010. primarily because of the amortization of these deferred actuarial losses, our pension cost was $67.6 million in 2010 and $98.0 million in 2009, a sharp increase from $10.8 million in 2008. we made $100 million of discretionary contributions to our pension plans during 2010 and $200 million in 2009, which increased the funded status of our pension plans to 85% at the end of 2010. a further decrease in the value of our pension plans assets or a decrease in the discount rate used to value the plans liabilities to participants could result in a further decrease in the plans funded status. in that case, vf would recognize additional pension liabilities and additional charges to stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet and higher pension expense in future years. further, vf could be required to make additional cash funding contributions to return the funded status of the pension plans to a higher level over the next few years. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, availability of credit, housing costs, stock market performance, extreme weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. consumer spending advanced at a relatively slow pace during 2011 and 2010 following the recessionary conditions of 2008 and early 2009. a decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. the effects of a return to recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on vf. the global recession with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values had and is continuing to have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to vf, or order cancellations. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce websites. it is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, could lead to a reduction in our direct-to-consumer sales channel. this could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, with the price of cotton currently having a significant negative impact. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf net sales depend on a volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center 15 and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate any of the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the apparel industry is highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demand. reduced sales or prices resulting from competition could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf competes with numerous apparel brands and manufacturers. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of most of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail. if we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could have insufficient levels of inventory that cause us to miss opportunities to make sales, or we could have significant excess inventories of products that we may have to sell at a loss. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: an increase or decrease in consumer demand for vf products or for products of its competitors; our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. 16 if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on vf results of operations and financial condition. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 23% of total revenues in fiscal 2011, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 9% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, increase ownership concentration within the retail industry, increase credit exposure or increase leverage over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its growth strategy. one of our key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow through both organic growth and acquisitions by building new growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. there are risks associated with vf acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the companies and the loss of key 17 employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. approximately 58% of vf 2011 net income was earned in international jurisdictions. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the united states. the president and others in his administration have proposed changes in u.s. income tax laws that could, among other things, accelerate the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limit foreign tax credits. although such proposals have been deferred, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. concerns regarding the european debt crisis, market perceptions and euro instability could adversely affect vf business, results of operations and financing. vf generated approximately 20% of its total revenues from european countries during 2011. concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain countries in the eurozone, in particular greece, italy, ireland, portugal and spain, and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro currency and eurozone dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at that time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of vf euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on the ability of vf customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses. vf uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2011, approximately 69% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated 18 manufacturing facilities located in mexico, central and south america, the caribbean, europe and the middle east. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. further, violations of such laws and regulations could affect the availability of inventory, affecting our net sales. failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for vf merchandise. damage to vf reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf reputation. if vf suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, vf business could suffer. we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. however, we do not control the practices of our independent manufacturers. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws 19 or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, it could impact vf reputation and relationships. although the loss of a single supplier would not have a significant impact on our operations, it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf total revenues (approximately 34% in 2011) is derived from international markets. vf foreign businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. because of conditions in global credit markets, vf may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during the last three years, global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. we typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last three years. in the future, vf may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be reliable sources of financing for vf. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has a $1.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2016. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. 20 the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf brands, such as the north face &reg; , timberland &reg; , vans &reg; , jansport &reg; , nautica &reg; , wrangler &reg; and lee &reg; brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2011, $93.8 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf global compliance principles. 21 in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business. moreover, vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. we evaluate goodwill and nonamortizing trademark intangible assets for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. during 2010, we recognized $201.7 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. 22 at december 2011, vf had indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $2.3 billion related to trademarks and $2.0 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. in addition, vf had approximately $0.6 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized. goodwill and intangible assets combined represent 53% of vf total assets and 110% of stockholders equity. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2012 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and ebitda and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has unfunded obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf business. vf operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf future operating results. vf direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise over the internet through its websites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, the (a) diversion of sales from vf stores, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, (c) domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf control, (d) the failure of the systems that operate the websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (e) liability for online content, (f) credit card fraud, and (e) risks related to vf direct-to-consumer distribution centers. vf failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its internet business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. vf business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands images. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions. a return to recessionary conditions or a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, extreme weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. consumer spending advanced at a relatively slow pace from 2010 through 2012, following the recessionary conditions of 2008 and early 2009, and the outlook for 2013 is uncertain as consumers face higher taxes. a decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for 13 the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, which occurred in the winter of 2011/2012, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. vf net sales depend on a volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of most of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and 14 obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail. produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to gauge fashion trends and accurately forecast demand for our products. our success depends in part on management ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion preferences and consumer demands and to translate trends into marketable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: our failure to anticipate changing styles or trends or accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new, well-received product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing fashion trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands images and vf customers connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. 15 a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay their receivables owed to vf could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 21% of total revenues in fiscal 2012, with wal-mart stores, inc. accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf customers over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. further, the global recession with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values had and is continuing to have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. these lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this may result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its growth strategy. one of vf key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. there are risks associated with vf acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of 16 key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, including in connection with the current integration of the timberland company acquisition. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. approximately 62% of vf 2012 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the united states. a number of changes in u.s. income tax laws have been proposed recently, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limit foreign tax credits. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various competing tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. concerns regarding the european debt crisis, market perceptions and euro instability could adversely affect vf business, results of operations and financing. vf generated approximately 22% of its total revenues from european countries during 2012. concerns persist regarding the debt burden of a number of countries in the eurozone, and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency 17 given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro currency and eurozone dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at that time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of vf euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on the ability of vf customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses. vf uses third party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2012, approximately 72% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in mexico, central and south america, the caribbean, europe and the middle east. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance 18 with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts, that may reduce demand for vf merchandise. damage to vf reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf reputation. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf total revenues (approximately 37% in 2012) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. because of conditions in global credit markets, vf may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during the last four years, global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. we typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last four years. in the future, vf may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets 19 will continue to be reliable sources of financing for vf. if vf does not have access to financing, it could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has a $1.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2016. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf brands, such as the north face &reg; , timberland &reg; , vans &reg; , jansport &reg; , nautica &reg; , wrangler &reg; and lee &reg; brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the united states or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2012, $113.8 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; 20 manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business, including corporate email communications, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, and our interaction with the public in the social media space. in the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach and severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf 21 distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. we evaluate goodwill and nonamortizing trademark intangible assets for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. during 2010, we recognized $201.7 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. at december 2012, vf had indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $2.4 billion related to trademarks and $2.0 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. in addition, vf had approximately $0.6 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized. goodwill and intangible assets combined represent 51% of vf total assets and 96% of stockholders equity. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2013 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and ebitda and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has unfunded obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf business. vf operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf future operating results. vf direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and over the internet through its websites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud, and (d) risks 22 related to vf direct-to-consumer distribution centers. risks specific to vf e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from vf stores, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and (c) liability for online content. vf failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its internet business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors. a return to recessionary conditions or a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, extreme weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. a decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. inventory accumulation by 13 table of contents our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of most of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; and produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to gauge consumer preferences and product trends and accurately forecast demand for our products. our success depends in part on management ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and product trends and to translate trends into marketable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. even if we are successful in anticipating consumer demands, we must continue to be able to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality products in order to sustain consumer demand. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: our failure to anticipate changing styles or trends or accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new, well-received product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. 14 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands images and vf customers connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes and musicians and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations and adversely affect the images of our brands. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business, including corporate email communications, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, and our interaction with the public on social media. in the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach and severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers. 15 table of contents a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 21% of total revenues in fiscal 2013, with our largest customer accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf customers over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its growth strategy. one of vf key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. there are risks associated with vf acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, 16 table of contents the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. approximately 60% of vf 2013 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the u.s. there have been a number of proposed changes to u.s. income tax laws, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limiting foreign tax credits. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents vf uses third party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2013, approximately 73% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central and south america, the caribbean, europe and the middle east. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption 18 table of contents of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf merchandise. damage to vf reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf reputation. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf total revenues (approximately 38% in 2013) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. long-term debt is part of vf total capital structure. because of conditions in global credit markets, vf may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during the last five years, global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. we typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. vf has been able to borrow in the commercial paper markets in recent years. in the future, vf may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisitions or other growth opportunities. there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be reliable sources of financing for vf. if vf does not have access to financing, it could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has a $1.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2016. if the financial 19 table of contents markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and over the internet through its websites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud and (d) risks related to vf direct-to-consumer distribution centers. risks specific to vf e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and (c) liability for online content. vf failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its internet business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business requires substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. vf net sales depend on a volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf 20 table of contents brands, such as the north face &reg; , timberland &reg; , vans &reg; , jansport &reg; , nautica &reg; , wrangler &reg; and lee &reg; , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf success. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2013, $117.3 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. 21 table of contents vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. we evaluate goodwill and nonamortizing trademark and trade name intangible assets for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2014 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and ebitda and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has unfunded obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf business. 22 table of contents vf operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors . the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors. a return to recessionary conditions or a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, 12 disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, extreme weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. a decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; and produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to gauge consumer preferences and product trends and accurately forecast demand for our products. our success depends in part on management ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and product trends and to translate trends into marketable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. even if we are successful in anticipating consumer demands, we must continue to be able to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality products in order to sustain consumer demand. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: our failure to anticipate changing styles or trends or accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; new, well-received product introductions by competitors; unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for vf products; and terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. 13 there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands images and vf customers connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes and musicians and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations and adversely affect the images of our brands. vf revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf business is increasingly seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on vf full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its growth strategy. one of vf key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities 14 across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on vf business. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage or interruption. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business, including effective management of inventory, inefficient ordering and replenishment of products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its results, operations or reputation. in the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf total revenues (approximately 38% in 2014) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates may affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. a significant portion of vf 2014 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the u.s. there have been a number of proposed changes to u.s. income tax laws, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limiting foreign tax credits. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and 16 estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements, and could significantly impact our profitability. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. we evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived trademark and trade name intangible assets for possible impairment at least annually. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2015 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2014, approximately 76% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central and south america, the caribbean, europe and the middle east. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, such as the recent west coast dock workers labor dispute that disrupted international trade at seaports, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; 17 disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the h1n1 virus, ebola, bird flu, sars, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf merchandise. damage to vf reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf reputation. fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 18 we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 20% of total revenues in fiscal 2014, with our largest customer accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf customers over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. our ability to obtain short or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. this could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has a $1.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in december 2016. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. 19 the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud and (d) risks related to vf direct-to-consumer distribution centers. risks specific to vf e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and (c) liability for online content. vf failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. vf net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf brands, such as the north face &reg; , timberland &reg; , vans &reg; , jansport &reg; , nautica &reg; , wrangler &reg; and lee &reg; , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf success. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the 20 value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2014, $127.4 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. 21 if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf business. vf operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors . the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf business, its operating results and its financial condition. 12 table of contents vf revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel and footwear, which is sensitive to global economic conditions and other factors. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the success of vf business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf products are sold. the current global economic environment is unpredictable and adverse economic trends or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf success depends on its ability to gauge consumer preferences and product trends, and respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; and produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences, markets and product trends could have a material adverse effect on vf business, financial condition and results of operations. vf results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs, the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, or excess inventory held by our wholesale customers, which could have a negative impact on future sales, an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf brands, and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents vf business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands images and vf customers connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes and musicians and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations and adversely affect the images of our brands. vf revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf business is increasingly seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on vf full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its business strategy. one of vf key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores, and growing our e-commerce business. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store and e-commerce expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our strategic objectives may have a material adverse effect on vf business. vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. 14 table of contents we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage or interruption. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf business, including management of inventory, ordering and replenishment of products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its results, operations or reputation. in the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information. vf business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf total revenues (approximately 36% in 2015) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products are affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, 15 table of contents the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. vf operations and earnings may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. these include the burdens of complying with u.s. and international laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and tariffs or other trade barriers. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf business or may require us to modify our current business practices. a significant portion of vf 2015 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations outside the u.s. there have been a number of proposed changes to u.s. income tax laws, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limiting foreign tax credits. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic u.s. and international tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements, and could significantly impact our profitability. vf balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf consolidated statement of income and could be material. vf policy is to evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill for possible impairment as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 16 table of contents fair value of such assets may be below their carrying amount. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2016 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf business operations. during fiscal 2015, approximately 77% of vf units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central and south america, the caribbean and europe. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products: political or labor instability in countries where vf facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, such as the west coast dock workers labor dispute that disrupted international trade at seaports, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. 17 table of contents our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive national, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf merchandise. damage to vf reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf reputation. fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf cost of goods sold or its ability to meet its customers demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. a substantial portion of vf revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf revenues and profits. a few of vf customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf ten largest customers were 22% of total revenues in fiscal 2015, with our largest customer accounting for 8% of revenues. sales to our 18 table of contents customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf customers over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf opportunities in the market and increase vf reliance on a smaller number of large customers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf financial condition and results of operations. our ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. this could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf business. vf has a $1.75 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in april 2020. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements to honor their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf business. vf also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. vf direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) u.s. or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud and (d) risks related to vf direct-to-consumer distribution centers. risks specific to vf e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales 19 table of contents from vf stores or wholesale customers, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and (c) liability for online content. vf failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. vf net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf brands, such as the north face &reg; , timberland &reg; , vans &reg; , jansport &reg; , nautica &reg; , wrangler &reg; and lee &reg; , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf success. counterfeiting of vf products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. 20 table of contents we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf brands. during 2015, $126.1 million of vf revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf operating results. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. 21 table of contents volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf business. vf operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.risk factors . the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating vf's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect vf's business, its operating results and its financial condition. vf's revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel and footwear, which is sensitive to global economic conditions and other factors. a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on vf. the success of vf's business depends on consumer spending on apparel and footwear, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, weather conditions, energy prices, consumer discretionary spending patterns and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where vf's products are sold. the current global economic environment is unpredictable and adverse economic trends or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on vf. the apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and vf's success depends on its ability to gauge consumer preferences and product trends, and respond to constantly changing markets. vf competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than vf in some product categories and regions. in addition, vf competes directly with the private label brands of its wholesale customers. vf's ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; maintain strong brand recognition; price products appropriately; provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; obtain sufficient retail store space and effectively present our products at retail; and produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences, markets and product trends could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, there are significant shifts underway in the wholesale, retail and e-commerce and retail store channels. vf may not be able to manage its brands within and across channels sufficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on vf's business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 vf's results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. we often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers' orders are firm. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs, the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices or excess inventory held by our wholesale customers, which could have a negative impact on future sales, an adverse effect on the image and reputation of vf's brands and negatively impact profitability. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to vf's reputation and relationships. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. vf's business and the success of its products could be harmed if vf is unable to maintain the images of its brands. vf's success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands' images and vf's customers' connection to its brands. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands' images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. in addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. negative claims or publicity regarding vf, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. in the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. in addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a number of athletes, musicians and celebrities and feature those individuals in our advertising and marketing efforts. actions taken by those individuals associated with our products could harm their reputations and adversely affect the images of our brands. vf's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. vf's business is increasingly seasonal, with a higher proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. poor sales in the second half of the fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on vf's full year operating results and cause higher inventories. in addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. vf's profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. if these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, vf's profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. vf may not succeed in its business strategy. one of vf's key strategic objectives is growth. we seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. we seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching vf's brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across vf and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores and growing our e-commerce business. we may not be able to grow our existing businesses. we may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. we may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, or our wholesale customers may encounter financial difficulties and thus reduce their purchases of vf products. we may not be able to expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. we may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. we may not be able to achieve our store and e-commerce expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. failure to implement our strategic objectives may have a material adverse effect on vf's business. 11 vf relies significantly on information technology. any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm vf's ability to effectively operate its business. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. we rely heavily on information technology to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. we are also dependent on information technology, including the internet, for our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization. despite our preventative efforts, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to damage or interruption. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of vf's business, including management of inventory, ordering and replenishment of products, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, corporate email communications and our interaction with the public on social media. vf is subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect its results, operations or reputation. in the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, and vf and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in vf's systems or one of our third-party service providers. it could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure or breach, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, as a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain. as a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information. vf's business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. vf's hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. a growing percentage of vf's total revenues (approximately 38% in 2016) is derived from markets outside the u.s. vf's international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in currency exchange rates affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which vf's international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. in addition, for vf's u.s.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or vf plants located in foreign countries. as a result, the cost of these products are affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. furthermore, much of vf's licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate vf from foreign exchange risk. we do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose vf to counterparty risks. although vf only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on vf's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with vf's acquisitions. any acquisitions or mergers by vf will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. these risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. in addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. we also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. if our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. 12 vf's operations and earnings may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. these include the burdens of complying with u.s. and international laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and tariffs or other trade barriers. we cannot predict any changes to u.s. participation in or renegotiations of certain trade agreements or whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on vf's business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect vf's business or may require us to modify our current business practices. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if such changes were adopted, our costs could increase, which would reduce our earnings. a significant portion of vf's 2016 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and most of our goods are manufactured outside the u.s. vf is exposed to risks of changes in u.s. policy for companies having business operations and manufacturing products outside the u.s. there have been a number of proposed changes to u.s. income tax laws, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the u.s. taxability of non-u.s. earnings or limiting foreign tax credits. while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our u.s. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. we may have additional tax liabilities. as a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. this analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. these determinations are the subject of periodic u.s. and international tax audits. although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements, and could significantly impact our profitability. vf's balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in vf's consolidated statement of income and could be material. vf's policy is to evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill for possible impairment as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of such assets may be below their carrying amount. in addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. for these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. if the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. it is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark and trade name intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2017 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. a future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 13 vf uses third-party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to vf's business operations. during fiscal 2016, approximately 78% of vf's units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by vf-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in the u.s., mexico, central and south america, the caribbean and europe. any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver vf products, or our cost of producing or delivering products and, as a result, our profitability: political or labor instability in countries where vf's facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; changes in local economic conditions in countries where vf's facilities, contractors, and suppliers are located; political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to vf and an increase in transportation costs; disruption at ports of entry, such as the west coast dock workers labor dispute that disrupted international trade at seaports, could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of vf products, increased costs for vf's anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; disruptions at manufacturing or distribution facilities caused by natural and man-made disasters; disease epidemics and health-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of vf's goods produced in infected areas; imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to vf's production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. this, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on vf's revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by vf or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for vf could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. our business is subject to comprehensive national, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, consumer protection, employment, privacy, safety and other matters. vf could be adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of those laws and regulations. in addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third-party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. the costs of products purchased by vf from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. failure by vf or its third-party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to vf, cancellation of orders by customers and termination of relationships. if one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices or takes other actions that are generally regarded as unethical, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts that may reduce demand for vf's merchandise. damage to vf's reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild vf's reputation. fluctuations in wage rates and the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by vf in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on vf's cost of goods sold or its ability to meet its customers' demands. the prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. in addition, fluctuations in wage rates required by legal or industry standards could increase our costs. in the future, vf may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass 14 higher costs on to its customers. this could have a material adverse effect on vf's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by weather conditions. our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. a significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. abnormally harsh or inclement weather can also negatively impact retail traffic and consumer spending. a substantial portion of vf's revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. the loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay vf could substantially reduce vf's revenues and profits. a few of vf's customers account for a significant portion of revenues. sales to vf's ten largest customers were 21% of total revenues in fiscal 2016, with our largest customer accounting for 9% of revenues. sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. a decision by any of vf's major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from vf could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, bankruptcies and other ownership changes. in the future, retailers are likely to further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations or bankruptcies, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. these developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry vf's products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to vf or an increase in leverage by vf's customers over their suppliers. these changes could impact vf's opportunities in the market and increase vf's reliance on a smaller number of large customers. further, the global economy periodically experiences recessionary conditions with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values. these recessionary conditions could have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. the lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. this could result in higher credit risk to vf relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. if these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on vf's trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on vf's financial condition and results of operations. our ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by geopolitical risk and volatility in the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could limit the availability of funds or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital in the future. this could adversely affect our liquidity and funding resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. an inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. vf has a global revolving credit facility. one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on vf's business. vf has a $2.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in april 2020. if the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements to honor their commitments. this could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. the loss of members of vf's executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. vf depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in vf's business. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on vf. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently. competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 15 vf's direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. vf sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through vf-operated stores and e-commerce sites. its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. risks include, but are not limited to, (a) u.s. or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside vf's control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud and (d) risks related to vf's direct-to-consumer distribution centers and processes. risks specific to vf's e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from vf stores or wholesale customers, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, (c) liability for online content, (d) changing patterns of consumer behavior and (e) intense competition from online retailers. vf's failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its e-commerce business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. our vf-operated stores and e-commerce business require substantial fixed investments in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct-to-consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. vf's net sales depend on the volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. a growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through vf-operated stores. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. vf may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. vf's trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. vf is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights, especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. some of vf's brands, such as the north face , timberland , vans , jansport , nautica , wrangler and lee , enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. vf's trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property are important to vf's success. counterfeiting of vf's products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect vf's revenues. actions we have taken to establish and protect vf's intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of vf's products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, unilateral actions in the u.s. or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on vf's ability to enforce those rights. the value of vf's intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of vf, or trademarks that are similar to vf's trademarks, or trademarks that vf licenses from others. we may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to vf's trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. vf is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. 16 vf is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of vf's brands. during 2016, $116.7 million of vf's revenues were derived from licensing royalties. although vf generally has significant control over its licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect vf's revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensee's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; maintain relationships with its customers; and adhere to vf's global compliance principles. in addition, vf relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. although we attempt to protect vf's brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed vf brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on vf. vf has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. loss of a license could have an adverse effect on vf's operating results. vf has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including major league baseball, the national football league and harley-davidson motor company, inc. some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on vf's operating results. if vf encounters problems with its distribution system, vf's ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. vf relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. vf's distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. because substantially all of vf's products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, vf's operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect vf from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in vf's distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. in addition, vf's distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. if we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase vf's defined benefit pension costs. vf currently has obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. unfavorable impacts from returns on plan assets, decreases in discount rates, changes in plan demographics or revisions in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for vf's business. vf's operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts vf's future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . a discussion of vf's market risks is incorporated by reference to risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report.