quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages a-13 through a-17 of the company's annual report to stockholders, and is incorporated by reference from exhibit 13 hereto.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 24 through 27.risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. 9 commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. in these markets, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 22.2% of our total net sales in 2012. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product 10 introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, but are not limited to, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, 11 resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2012, we derived approximately 16.1% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. additionally, 20.5% of our total consolidated assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2012. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, brazil, india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build an engaged global workforce. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions or failure of information technology systems is possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. 12 future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry and civil antitrust lawsuits in the united states could negatively impact our reputation and our operating results. in 2007, the competition bureau of canada began an inquiry into alleged violations of the canadian competition act in the sale and supply of chocolate products sold in canada between 2002 and 2008 by members of the confectionery industry, including hershey canada, inc. the u.s. department of justice also notified the company in 2007 that it had opened an inquiry, but has not requested any information or documents. we also are party to a number of civil antitrust lawsuits in the united states, including individual, class, and putative class actions. additional information about these proceedings is contained in item 3. legal proceedings of this form 10-k. competition and antitrust law investigations can be lengthy and violations are subject to civil and/or criminal fines and other sanctions. class action civil antitrust lawsuits are expensive to defend and could result in significant judgments, including in some cases, payment of treble damages and/or attorneys' fees to the successful plaintiff. additionally, negative publicity involving these proceedings could affect our company's brands and reputation, possibly resulting in decreased demand for our products. these possible consequences, in our opinion, should not materially impact our financial position or liquidity but could materially impact our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which they are accrued or paid, respectively. pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements for our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. a significant increase in pension expense, in pension settlement losses or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for more information, refer to page 41. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required information about market risk is included in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 36 through 39. 47risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements or could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures in these markets, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 25.5% of our total net sales in 2013. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are much larger companies that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately three-quarters of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. 10 our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. 11 international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2013, we derived approximately 16.6% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. additionally, 19.4% of our total consolidated assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2013. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, brazil, india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we believe that our security technology and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction 12 errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. future developments related to civil antitrust lawsuits and the possible investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in the united states could negatively impact our reputation and our operating results. we are a defendant in a number of civil antitrust lawsuits in the united states, including individual, class, and putative class actions brought against us by purchasers of our products. the u.s. department of justice also notified the company in 2007 that it had opened an inquiry into certain alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry, but has not requested any information or documents. additional information about these proceedings is contained in item 3. legal proceedings of this form 10-k. competition and antitrust law investigations can be lengthy and violators are subject to civil and/or criminal fines and other sanctions. class action civil antitrust lawsuits are expensive to defend and could result in significant judgments, including in some cases, payment of treble damages and/or attorneys' fees to the successful plaintiff. additionally, negative publicity involving these proceedings could affect our company's brands and reputation, possibly resulting in decreased demand for our products. these possible consequences, in our opinion, currently are not expected to materially impact our financial position or liquidity, but could materially impact our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which any fines, settlements or judgments are accrued or paid, respectively. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required information about market risk is included in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 36 through 41. 49risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if 7 we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in north america, we announced a weighted average price increase in july 2014 of approximately 8% across our instant consumable, multi-pack, packaged candy and grocery lines to help offset part of the significant increases in our input costs, including raw materials, packaging, fuel, utilities and transportation, which we expect to incur in the future. while the increase was effective immediately, direct buying customers were given an opportunity to purchase transitional amounts of product at price points prior to the increase during the immediately following four-week period, and the increase is not expected to benefit seasonal sales until halloween 2015. accordingly, we expect that the majority of the financial benefit from this pricing action will impact earnings in 2015. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures in these markets, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 25% of our total net sales in 2014 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. in 2014, we also experienced increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. 8 disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately two-thirds of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service 9 providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our expanding international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2014 , we derived approximately 18% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states, versus 17% in 2013 and 16% in 2012. additionally, 35% of our total consolidated assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2014 . as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, brazil, india and china. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we believe that our security technology and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible 10 and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. future developments related to civil antitrust lawsuits and the possible investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in the united states could negatively impact our reputation and our operating results. we are a defendant in a number of civil antitrust lawsuits in the united states, including individual, class and putative class actions brought against us by purchasers of our products. the u.s. department of justice also notified the company in 2007 that it had opened an inquiry into certain alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry, but has not requested any information or documents. additional information about these proceedings is contained in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. competition and antitrust law investigations can be lengthy and violators are subject to civil and/or criminal fines and other sanctions. class action civil antitrust lawsuits are expensive to defend and could result in significant judgments, including in some cases, payment of treble damages and/or attorneys' fees to the successful plaintiff. additionally, negative publicity involving these proceedings could affect our company's brands and reputation, possibly resulting in decreased demand for our products. these possible consequences, in our opinion, currently are not expected to materially impact our financial position or liquidity, but could materially impact our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which any fines, settlements or judgments are accrued or paid, respectively. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. 37 interest rate risk in order to manage interest rate exposure, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements. we are currently using forward starting interest rate swap agreements to reduce interest volatility associated with certain anticipated debt issues and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of these swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.2 billion and $250 million, respectively. the notional amount at december 31, 2014, includes $450 million of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable rate debt as of december 31, 2014 would have increased interest expense by approximately $4.6 million for the full year 2014. we had minimal variable rate interest exposure as of december 31, 2013. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the 2014 year-end fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $83 million. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 24 months. a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2014 2013 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 21.9 euros $ 158.4 malaysian ringgits swiss francs euros foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 48.8 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen $ 2.8 japanese yen in 2013, foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the purchase of malaysian ringgits and certain other currencies were associated with the construction of the manufacturing facility in malaysia. the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, the net fair value of these instruments was an asset of $1.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $7.0 million and $12.9 million, respectively. our risk related to foreign currency forward exchange contracts is limited to the cost of replacing the contracts at prevailing market rates. 38 commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: l commodity market fluctuations; l foreign currency exchange rates; l imbalances between supply and demand; l the effect of weather on crop yield; l speculative influences; l trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; l supplier compliance with commitments; l political unrest in producing countries; and l changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, the dairy futures markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it is difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. we use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. during 2014, average cocoa futures contract prices increased compared with 2013 and traded in a range between $1.25 and $1.45 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was higher in 2014 and global demand was slightly higher, which produced a small surplus in cocoa supplies over the past year. despite the small increase in global cocoa inventories, prices remained elevated in response to concerns over the future balance of global cocoa supply and demand. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 annual average $ 1.36 $ 1.09 $ 1.07 $ 1.34 $ 1.36 high 1.45 1.26 1.17 1.55 1.53 low 1.25 0.97 1.00 0.99 1.26 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. 39 during 2014, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.22 per pound to a high of $0.26 per pound, on a class ii fluid milk basis. dairy prices reached historically high levels during 2014, driven by increased imports by china and supply challenges due to the 2013 drought in new zealand. the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. in 2014, u.s. sugar producers filed an anti-dumping suit against mexico, which reduced sugar imports from mexico. as a result, refined sugar prices increased compared to 2013, trading higher in a range from $0.31 to $0.42 per pound. peanut prices in the united states began the year around $0.49 per pound and closed the year at $0.53 per pound. peanut supply is ample to support u.s. demand heading into 2015. almond prices began the year at $3.69 per pound and increased to $4.39 per pound during 2014. the third consecutive year of droughts in california had a negative impact on yields, with the 2014 crop estimated to be 10% lower than 2013. we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. we report these cash transfers as a component of other comprehensive income. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity position sensitivity analysis the following sensitivity analysis reflects our market risk to a hypothetical adverse market price movement of 10%, based on our net commodity positions at four dates spaced equally throughout the year. our net commodity positions consist of the amount of futures contracts we hold over or under the amount of futures contracts we need to price unpriced physical forward contracts for the same commodities (our requirements ). inventories, fixed-price forward contracts and anticipated purchases not yet under contract are not included in the sensitivity analysis calculations. the fair values of net commodity positions reflect quoted market prices or estimated future prices, including estimated carrying costs corresponding with the future delivery period. the market risk noted below reflects the potential loss in future earnings resulting from the hypothetical adverse market price movement. for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 fair value market risk (hypothetical 10% change) fair value market risk (hypothetical 10% change) in millions of dollars highest position of futures contracts held over (under) requirements $ (362.7 ) $ 36.3 $ (29.3 ) $ 2.9 lowest position of futures contracts held over (under) requirements (612.9 ) 61.3 (249.4 ) 24.9 average of futures contracts held over (under) requirements (506.6 ) 50.7 (105.6 ) 10.6 the negative positions primarily resulted as our requirements exceeded the amount of commodities futures that we held at certain points in time during the years. 40risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if 6 we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends, including trends relating to store trips and the impact of the growing e-commerce channel; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets where we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 26% of our total net sales in 2015 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. we continue to experience increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately two-thirds of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: 7 natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during 2015, we faced a number of challenges in connection with the ongoing integration of sgm. since its acquisition in 2014, the sgm business has performed below expectations, with net sales and earnings well below pre-acquisition levels. in addition, issues with the quality of sgm's accounts receivables and existing distributor networks have affected our ability to fully realize many of the acquisition benefits that we believe will help accelerate our growth in china and enhance our ability to serve chinese consumers. as a result of sgm's poor performance and these other contributing factors, in the second and third quarters of 2015 we recorded a goodwill write-down of approximately $266 million, representing all of the goodwill relating to the sgm reporting unit. while we believe we have appropriate strategies in place that will allow us to accelerate the sgm integration in 2016, additional challenges that impede further integration could jeopardize our growth strategy in china and could have a negative impact on the results of operations and cash flows of our international and other reportable segment. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained 8 global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our expanding international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2015 , we derived approximately 17% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states, versus 19% in 2014 and 18% in 2013. additionally, approximately 32% of our total long-lived assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2015 . as part of our global growth strategy, we have made investments outside of the united states, particularly china and asia, mexico and brazil. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in an inability to cover manufacturing fixed costs or resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. 9 we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we believe that our security technology and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. we might not be able to hire, engage and retain the talented global workforce we need to drive our growth strategies. our people continue to be our most important asset, and our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, engage and retain talented personnel across the globe. competition for global talent is intense, and we might not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need to continue to evolve and grow our business. in particular, if we are unable to hire the right individuals to fill the new senior management positions created as a result of the productivity initiative we announced in june 2015, our business performance may be impacted. activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals require significant time and attention. we may also need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract talented new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining and engaging the talented individuals we need to sustain our core business and lead our developing businesses into new markets, channels and categories. this may require significant investments in training, coaching and other career development and retention activities. if we are not able to effectively retain and grow our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, which may impact our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. interest rate risk in order to manage interest rate exposure, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements. we are currently using forward starting interest rate swap agreements to reduce interest volatility associated with certain anticipated debt issues and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of these swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2015 and 2014 was $850 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. the notional amount at december 31, 2015, includes $350 million of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable rate debt as of december 31, 2015 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.6 million for the full year 2015 and $4.6 million for the full year 2014. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 by approximately $76 million and $57 million, respectively. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. 43 foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 24 months. a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2015 2014 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 19.8 euros $ 21.9 euros foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 11.9 brazilian reals japanese yen $ 48.8 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, the net fair value of these instruments was a liability of $0.1 million and an asset of $1.5 million, respectively. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $3.2 million and $7.0 million, respectively. commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: l commodity market fluctuations; l foreign currency exchange rates; l imbalances between supply and demand; l the effect of weather on crop yield; l speculative influences; l trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; l supplier compliance with commitments; l political unrest in producing countries; and l changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, the dairy futures markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it is difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. 44 we use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. during 2015, average cocoa futures contract prices increased compared with 2014 and traded in a range between $1.28 and $1.53 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was higher in 2015 and global demand was slightly higher, which produced a small surplus in cocoa supplies over the past year. despite the small increase in global cocoa inventories, prices remained elevated in response to concerns over the future balance of global cocoa supply and demand. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 annual average $ 1.40 $ 1.36 $ 1.09 $ 1.07 $ 1.34 high 1.53 1.45 1.26 1.17 1.55 low 1.28 1.25 0.97 1.00 0.99 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. during 2015, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.15 per pound to a high of $0.18 per pound, on a class ii fluid milk basis. dairy prices were lower than 2014, driven by increased production and larger inventories globally. the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. in 2015, as part of an anti-dumping case against mexican sugar producers, the u.s. government determined that mexico was dumping sugar into the u.s. market. as a result of the case, the u.s. and mexican governments signed a suspension agreement which will limit sugar exports from mexico to the u.s. and cause u.s. sugar prices to trade $0.03 to $0.05 per pound higher than prior to the case. u.s. refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.36 to $0.40 per pound during 2015. peanut prices in the u.s. began the year around $0.52 per pound and closed the year at $0.46 per pound. peanut supply is ample to support u.s. demand heading into 2016. almond prices began the year at $4.34 per pound and decreased to $4.04 per pound during 2015. the fourth consecutive year of drought in california had a negative impact on yields, with the 2015 crop estimated to be approximately 5% lower than 2014. we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity sensitivity analysis our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $374.8 million as of december 31, 2015 and $347.5 million as of december 31, 2014. at the end of 2015, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2015 by $37.5 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. 45risk factors 6 risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. 6 although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive sustainable innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends, including but not limited to, trends relating to store trips and the impact of the growing e-commerce channel; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets where we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 25% of our total net sales in 2016 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. we continue to experience increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which has pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. 7 disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately two-thirds of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during 2016, we successfully completed the sgm integration. however, additional challenges remain, including challenges associated with the macroeconomic environment in china, which could affect our strategy and could have a negative impact on the results of operations and cash flows of our international and other reportable segment. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 8 changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2016 , we derived approximately 17% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states, compared to 17% in 2015 and 19% in 2014 . additionally, approximately 30% of our total long-lived assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2016 . as part of our strategy, we have made investments outside of the united states, particularly in china, malaysia, mexico and brazil. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in an inability to cover manufacturing fixed costs or resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. 9 while we believe that our security technology and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees and those with whom we do business. we might not be able to hire, engage and retain the talented global workforce we need to drive our growth strategies. our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, engage and retain talented personnel across the globe. competition for global talent is intense, and we might not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need to continue to evolve and grow our business. in particular, if we are unable to hire the right individuals to fill new or existing senior management positions as vacancies arise, our business performance may be impacted. activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals require significant time and attention. we may also need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract talented new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining and engaging the talented individuals we need to sustain our core business and lead our developing businesses into new markets, channels and categories. this may require significant investments in training, coaching and other career development and retention activities. if we are not able to effectively retain and grow our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, which may impact our financial condition and results of operations. we may not fully realize the expected costs savings and/or operating efficiencies associated with our strategic initiatives or restructuring programs, which may have an adverse impact on our business. we depend on our ability to evolve and grow, and as changes in our business environment occur, we may adjust our business plans by introducing new strategic initiatives or restructuring programs to meet these changes. from time to time, we implement business realignment activities to support key strategic initiatives designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth, such as the production and supply chain network optimization program we commenced in the second quarter of 2016. these programs are intended to increase our operating effectiveness and efficiency, to reduce our costs and/or to generate savings that can be reinvested in other areas of our business. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives and restructuring programs, that we will achieve or sustain the intended benefits under these programs, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth and profitability expectations, which could in turn adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. interest rate risk in order to manage interest rate exposure, we may periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements including fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions and forward starting interest rate swap agreements to reduce interest volatility associated with certain anticipated debt issues. when utilized, the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of these swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2016 and 2015 was $350 million and $850 million, respectively. we had one forward starting interest rate swap agreement in a cash flow hedging relationship with a notional amount of $500 million at december 31, 2015. this interest rate swap agreement was settled in connection with the issuance of debt in august 2016, resulting in a payment of approximately $87 million which is reflected within operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. the notional amount at december 31, 2016 and 2015 includes $350 million of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps that convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2016 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.6 million for the full year 2016 and 2015, respectively. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 by approximately $142 million and $76 million, respectively. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 12 months. 41 a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2016 2015 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 9.4 euros $ 19.8 euros foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 80.4 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen $ 11.9 brazilian reals japanese yen the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , the net fair value of these instruments was an asset of $1.4 million and a liability of $0.1 million, respectively. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $9.6 million and $3.2 million, respectively. commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: l commodity market fluctuations; l foreign currency exchange rates; l imbalances between supply and demand; l the effect of weather on crop yield; l speculative influences; l trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; l supplier compliance with commitments; l political unrest in producing countries; and l changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, dairy futures liquidity is not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it can be difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. we use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. during 2016, average cocoa futures contract prices decreased compared with 2015 and traded in a range between $1.03 and $1.38 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was lower during the 2015 to 2016 crop year and global demand was slightly higher, which produced a small reduction in global cocoa stocks over the past year. despite the slight decrease in global cocoa inventories, prices started to decline in 42 response to expectations that future cocoa supply increases were going to outpace demand and rebuild global stocks during the subsequent crop year. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 annual average $ 1.29 $ 1.40 $ 1.36 $ 1.09 $ 1.06 high 1.38 1.53 1.45 1.26 1.17 low 1.03 1.28 1.25 0.97 1.00 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. during 2016, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.13 per pound to a high of $0.15 per pound, on a class iv milk basis. dairy prices were lower than 2015, driven by increased production in europe and the united states as well as larger dairy product inventories globally. the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. united states delivered east coast refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.33 to $0.39 per pound during 2016. peanut prices in the united states began the year around $0.46 per pound and closed the year at $0.65 per pound. drought conditions throughout 2016 in the key southeast peanut growing region resulted in an estimated 5% smaller crop versus the 2015 crop and drove price increases. almond prices began the year at $3.53 per pound and decreased to $2.84 per pound during 2016. almond supply is ample to support u.s. demand heading into 2017 as the 2016 crop is expected to be approximately 11% larger than the 2015 crop. (source: almond board of california ) we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity sensitivity analysis our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $739.4 million as of december 31, 2016 and $374.8 million as of december 31, 2015. at the end of 2016, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2016 by $73.9 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. 43risk factors 6 risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. 6 although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, freight, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive sustainable innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends, including but not limited to, trends relating to store trips and the impact of the growing e-commerce channel; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets where we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 29% of our total net sales in 2017 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. we continue to experience increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which has pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. 7 disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately 70% of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers; and suboptimal production planning which could impact our ability to cost-effectively meet product demand. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in january 2018, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of amplify snack brands, inc. while we believe significant operating synergies can be obtained in connection with this acquisition, achievement of these synergies will be driven by our ability to successfully leverage hershey's resources, expertise and capability-building. in addition, the acquisition of amplify is an important step in our journey to expand our breadth in snacking, as it should enable us to bring scale and category management capabilities to a key sub-segment of the warehouse snack aisle. if we are unable to successfully couple hershey's scale and expertise in brand building with amplify's existing operations, it may impact our ability to expand our snacking footprint at our desired pace. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, we derived approximately 17% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. additionally, approximately 25% of our total long-lived assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2017 . as part of our strategy, we have made investments outside of the united states, particularly in china, malaysia, mexico, brazil and india. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in an inability to cover manufacturing fixed costs or resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. 9 we are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. therefore, we continuously monitor and update our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we have been subject to cyber attacks and other security breaches, these incidents did not have a significant impact on our business operations. we believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees and those with whom we do business. this in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results or operations. in addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our information technology systems suffered as a result of a cyber attack could be significant. we might not be able to hire, engage and retain the talented global workforce we need to drive our growth strategies. our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, engage and retain talented personnel across the globe. competition for global talent is intense, and we might not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need to continue to evolve and grow our business. in particular, if we are unable to hire the right individuals to fill new or existing senior management positions as vacancies arise, our business performance may be impacted. activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals require significant time and attention. we may also need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract talented new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining and engaging the talented individuals we need to sustain our core business and lead our developing businesses into new markets, channels and categories. this may require significant investments in training, coaching and other career development and retention activities. if we are not able to effectively retain and grow our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, which may impact our financial condition and results of operations. we may not fully realize the expected costs savings and/or operating efficiencies associated with our strategic initiatives or restructuring programs, which may have an adverse impact on our business. we depend on our ability to evolve and grow, and as changes in our business environment occur, we may adjust our business plans by introducing new strategic initiatives or restructuring programs to meet these changes. from time to time, we implement business realignment activities to support key strategic initiatives designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth, such as the margin for growth program we commenced in the first quarter of 2017. these programs are intended to increase our operating effectiveness and efficiency, to reduce our costs and/or to generate savings that can be reinvested in other areas of our business. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives and restructuring programs, that we will achieve or sustain the intended benefits under these programs, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth and profitability expectations, which could in turn adversely affect our business. 10 complications with the design or implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could adversely impact our business and operations. we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. we are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. this erp system will replace our existing operating and financial systems. the erp system is designed to accurately maintain the company's financial records, enhance operational functionality and provide timely information to the company's management team related to the operation of the business. the erp system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. we may not be able to successfully implement the erp system without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. if we are unable to successfully design and implement the new erp system as planned, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. additionally, if we do not effectively implement the erp system as planned or the erp system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. 43 refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. interest rate risk the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2017 and 2016 was $350 million. the notional amount relates to fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt at december 31, 2017 and 2016. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2017 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.5 million and $3.6 million for the full year 2017 and 2016, respectively. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 by approximately $134 million and $142 million, respectively. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. in order to manage interest rate exposure, in previous years we utilized interest rate swap agreements to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions. these swaps, which were settled upon issuance of the related debt, were designated as cash flow hedges and the gains and losses that were deferred in other comprehensive income are being recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the same period that the hedged interest payments affect earnings. during 2016, we had one interest rate swap agreement in a cash flow hedging relationship with a notional amount of $500 million, which was settled in connection with the issuance of debt in august 2016, resulting in a payment of approximately $87 million which is reflected as an operating cash flow within the consolidated statement of cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 12 months. a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2017 2016 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 19.5 euros $ 9.4 euros foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 158.2 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen $ 80.4 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , the net fair value of these instruments was a liability of $1.0 million and an asset of $1.4 million, respectively. assuming an 44 unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $19.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively. commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: l commodity market fluctuations; l foreign currency exchange rates; l imbalances between supply and demand; l the effect of weather on crop yield; l speculative influences; l trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; l supplier compliance with commitments; l political unrest in producing countries; and l changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, dairy futures liquidity is not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it can be difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. we use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. during 2017, average cocoa futures contract prices decreased compared with 2016 and traded in a range between $0.87 and $0.99 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was higher during the 2016 to 2017 crop year and outpaced the increases in global demand, which led to a rebuild in global cocoa stocks over the past year. as a result, cocoa prices declined in 2017 versus 2016 due to excess supply relative to demand. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 annual average $ 0.91 $ 1.29 $ 1.40 $ 1.36 $ 1.09 high 0.99 1.38 1.53 1.45 1.26 low 0.87 1.03 1.28 1.25 0.97 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. 45 during 2017, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.14 per pound to a high of $0.16 per pound, on a class iv milk basis. dairy prices were higher than 2016, driven by a decline in milk production in europe and new zealand. additionally, in 2017, dairy butter prices reached record highs at $2.50 per pound as european union inventories were strained by a supply shortage and adverse weather. the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. united states delivered east coast refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.38 to $0.40 per pound during 2017. peanut prices in the united states began the year around $0.65 per pound and closed the year at $0.47 per pound. higher planted acreage and optimal growing conditions throughout 2017 in the key u.s. peanut growing regions resulted in an estimated 21% larger crop versus the 2016 crop and drove price decreases. almond prices began the year at $2.84 per pound and closed the year at $2.84 per pound. almond supply is ample to support u.s. demand heading into 2018 as the 2017 crop is expected to be approximately 5.1% larger than the 2016 crop. (source: almond board of california ) we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity sensitivity analysis our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $405.3 million as of december 31, 2017 and $739.4 million as of december 31, 2016. at the end of 2017, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2017 by $38.6 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. 46risk factors 6 risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company's reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. 6 although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, freight, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive sustainable innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends, including but not limited to, trends relating to store trips and the impact of the growing digital commerce channel; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets where we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 28% of our total net sales in 2018 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. we continue to experience increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which has pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. 7 disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately 71% of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers; and suboptimal production planning which could impact our ability to cost-effectively meet product demand. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we completed the acquisitions of amplify snack brands, inc. and pirate brands in january 2018 and october 2018, respectively. while we believe significant operating synergies can be obtained in connection with these acquisitions, achievement of these synergies will be driven by our ability to successfully leverage hershey's resources, expertise, capability-building, distribution locations and customer base. in addition, the acquisitions of amplify and pirate brands are important steps in our journey to expand our breadth in snacking, as they should enable us to bring scale and category management capabilities to a key sub-segment of the warehouse snack aisle. if we are unable to successfully couple hershey's scale and expertise in brand building with amplify and pirate brands' existing operations, it may impact our ability to expand our snacking footprint at our desired pace. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, broad political instability, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, we derived approximately 16% , 17% and 17% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. additionally, approximately 22% of our total long-lived assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2018 . as part of our strategy, we have made investments outside of the united states, particularly in canada, china, malaysia, mexico, brazil and india. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in an inability to cover manufacturing fixed costs or resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. 9 we are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. therefore, we continuously monitor and update our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we have been subject to cyber attacks and other security breaches, these incidents did not have a significant impact on our business operations. we believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees and those with whom we do business. this in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results or operations. in addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our information technology systems suffered as a result of a cyber attack could be significant. we might not be able to hire, engage and retain the talented global workforce we need to drive our growth strategies. our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, engage and retain talented personnel across the globe. competition for global talent is intense, and we might not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need to continue to evolve and grow our business. in particular, if we are unable to hire the right individuals to fill new or existing senior management positions as vacancies arise, our business performance may be impacted. activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals require significant time and attention. we may also need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract talented new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining and engaging the talented individuals we need to sustain our core business and lead our developing businesses into new markets, channels and categories. this may require significant investments in training, coaching and other career development and retention activities. if we are not able to effectively retain and grow our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, which may impact our financial condition and results of operations. we may not fully realize the expected costs savings and/or operating efficiencies associated with our strategic initiatives or restructuring programs, which may have an adverse impact on our business. we depend on our ability to evolve and grow, and as changes in our business environment occur, we may adjust our business plans by introducing new strategic initiatives or restructuring programs to meet these changes. recently introduced strategic initiatives include our efforts to continue to expand our presence in digital commerce, to transform our manufacturing, commercial and corporate operations through digital technologies and to enhance our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights. if we are not able to capture our share of the expanding digital commerce market, if we do not adequately leverage technology to improve operating efficiencies or if we are unable to develop the data analytics capabilities needed to generate actionable commercial insights, our business performance may be impacted, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, from time to time we implement business realignment activities to support key strategic initiatives designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth, such as the margin for growth program we commenced in the first quarter of 2017. these programs are intended to increase our operating effectiveness and efficiency, to reduce our costs and/or to generate savings that can be reinvested in other areas of our business. we cannot guarantee that we will 10 be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives and restructuring programs, that we will achieve or sustain the intended benefits under these programs, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth and profitability expectations, which could in turn adversely affect our business. complications with the design or implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could adversely impact our business and operations. we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. we are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. this erp system will replace our existing operating and financial systems. the erp system is designed to accurately maintain the company's financial records, enhance operational functionality and provide timely information to the company's management team related to the operation of the business. the erp system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. we may not be able to successfully implement the erp system without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. if we are unable to successfully design and implement the new erp system as planned, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. additionally, if we do not effectively implement the erp system as planned or the erp system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. interest rate risk the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2018 and 2017 was $350 million. the notional amount relates to fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt at december 31, 2018 and 2017. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2018 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.5 million for the full year 2018 and 2017, respectively. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall 43 and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 by approximately $121 million and $134 million, respectively. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. in order to manage interest rate exposure, in previous years we utilized interest rate swap agreements to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions. these swaps, which were settled upon issuance of the related debt, were designated as cash flow hedges and the gains and losses that were deferred in other comprehensive income are being recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the same period that the hedged interest payments affect earnings. during 2016, we had one interest rate swap agreement in a cash flow hedging relationship with a notional amount of $500 million, which was settled in connection with the issuance of debt in august 2016, resulting in a payment of approximately $87 million which is reflected as an operating cash flow within the consolidated statement of cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 12 months. a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2018 2017 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 33.4 euros british pound $ 19.5 euros foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 51.8 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen $ 158.2 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , the net fair value of these instruments was an asset of $2.5 million and a liability of $1.0 million, respectively. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $4.5 million and $19.7 million, respectively. 44 commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: l commodity market fluctuations; l foreign currency exchange rates; l imbalances between supply and demand; l the effect of weather on crop yield; l speculative influences; l trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; l supplier compliance with commitments; l political unrest in producing countries; and l changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, dairy futures liquidity is not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it can be difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. we use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. during 2018, average cocoa futures contract prices increased compared with 2017 and traded in a range between $0.88 and $1.23 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was higher during the 2017 to 2018 crop year and slightly outpaced the increase in global demand, which led to a small rebuild in global cocoa stocks over the past year. at the beginning of the year, cocoa prices rallied sharply before declining in the second half due to increased supply relative to demand. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 annual average $ 1.06 $ 0.91 $ 1.29 $ 1.40 $ 1.36 high 1.23 0.99 1.38 1.53 1.45 low 0.88 0.87 1.03 1.28 1.25 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. during 2018, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.13 per pound to a high of $0.15 per pound, on a class iv milk basis. fluid dairy milk prices were lower than 2017, driven by higher u.s. inventories. 45 the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. united states delivered east coast refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.38 to $0.40 per pound during 2018. peanut prices in the united states ranged from a from a low of $0.45 per pound to a high of $0.50 per pound. lower planted acreage and unfavorable weather conditions during harvest in the key u.s. peanut growing regions resulted in an estimated 26% smaller crop versus the 2017 crop. almond prices began the year at $2.89 per pound and closed the year at $2.98 per pound, driven by record shipments and lower than expected yields for the 2018 crop. we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity sensitivity analysis our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $693.5 million as of december 31, 2018 and $405.3 million as of december 31, 2017. at the end of 2018, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2018 by $71.6 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. 46risk factors 6 risk factors cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. the forward-looking statements that we make in this annual report on form 10-k are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. we assume no obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. our company's reputation or brand image might be impacted as a result of issues or concerns relating to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, human and workplace rights, and other environmental, social or governance matters, which in turn could negatively impact our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers, consumers, suppliers, vendors and employees, among others. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our company's image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption, and we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. in addition, negative publicity related to our environmental, social or governance practices could also impact our reputation with customers, consumers, suppliers and vendors. costs associated with these potential actions, as well as the potential impact on our ability to sell our products, could negatively affect our operating results. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 6 increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, corn products, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, natural gas and diesel fuel. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchanges rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield and quality; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; import/export requirements for raw materials and finished goods; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, freight, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; our ability to drive sustainable innovation and maintain a strong pipeline of new products in the confectionery and broader snacking categories; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends, including but not limited to, trends relating to store trips and the impact of the growing digital commerce channel; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. there continues to be competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets where we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 30% of our total net sales in 2019 . mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 7 increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are large companies that have significant resources and substantial international operations. we continue to experience increased levels of in-store activity for other snack items, which has pressured confectionery category growth. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and must continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our manufacturing operations or supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. approximately 70% of our manufacturing capacity is located in the united states. disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers; and suboptimal production planning which could impact our ability to cost-effectively meet product demand. we believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. we have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy. if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we completed the acquisitions of one brands, llc in september 2019, pirate brands in october 2018 and amplify snack brands, inc. in january 2018, respectively. while we believe significant operating synergies can be obtained in connection with these acquisitions, achievement of these synergies will be driven by our ability to successfully leverage hershey's resources, expertise, capability-building, distribution locations and customer base. in addition, these acquisitions are important steps in our journey to expand our breadth in snacking, as they should enable us to bring scale and category management capabilities to a key sub-segment of the warehouse snack aisle. if we are unable to successfully couple hershey's scale and expertise in brand building with one brands, pirate brands and amplify's existing operations, it may impact our ability to expand our snacking footprint at our desired pace. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 8 changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws, import/export requirements and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. political, economic and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, the availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, broad political instability, rising unemployment, pandemic outbreak of disease, weather, natural and other disasters and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. our international operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, we derived approximately 16% , 16% and 17% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. additionally, approximately 20% of our total long-lived assets were located outside of the united states as of december 31, 2019 . as part of our strategy, we have made investments outside of the united states, particularly in canada, china, malaysia, mexico, brazil and india. as a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; inability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in an inability to cover manufacturing fixed costs or resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; and failure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce. if we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 9 disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is critically important to our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. therefore, we continuously monitor and update our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company's data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. while we have been subject to cyber attacks and other security breaches, these incidents did not have a significant impact on our business operations. we believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees and those with whom we do business. this in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results or operations. in addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our information technology systems suffered as a result of a cyber attack could be significant. we might not be able to hire, engage and retain the talented global workforce we need to drive our growth strategies. our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, engage and retain talented personnel across the globe. competition for global talent is intense, and we might not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need to continue to evolve and grow our business. in particular, if we are unable to hire the right individuals to fill new or existing senior management positions as vacancies arise, our business performance may be impacted. activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals require significant time and attention. we may also need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract talented new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining and engaging the talented individuals we need to sustain our core business and lead our developing businesses into new markets, channels and categories. this may require significant investments in training, coaching and other career development and retention activities. if we are not able to effectively retain and grow our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, which may impact our financial condition and results of operations. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 10 we may not fully realize the expected costs savings and/or operating efficiencies associated with our strategic initiatives or restructuring programs, which may have an adverse impact on our business. we depend on our ability to evolve and grow, and as changes in our business environment occur, we may adjust our business plans by introducing new strategic initiatives or restructuring programs to meet these changes. recently introduced strategic initiatives include our efforts to continue to expand our presence in digital commerce, to transform our manufacturing, commercial and corporate operations through digital technologies and to enhance our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights. if we are not able to capture our share of the expanding digital commerce market, if we do not adequately leverage technology to improve operating efficiencies or if we are unable to develop the data analytics capabilities needed to generate actionable commercial insights, our business performance may be impacted, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, from time to time we implement business realignment activities to support key strategic initiatives designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth, such as the margin for growth program we commenced in the first quarter of 2017. these programs are intended to increase our operating effectiveness and efficiency, to reduce our costs and/or to generate savings that can be reinvested in other areas of our business. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives and restructuring programs, that we will achieve or sustain the intended benefits under these programs, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth and profitability expectations, which could in turn adversely affect our business. complications with the design or implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could adversely impact our business and operations. we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. we are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. this erp system will replace our existing operating and financial systems. the erp system is designed to accurately maintain the company's financial records, enhance operational functionality and provide timely information to the company's management team related to the operation of the business. the erp system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. we may not be able to successfully implement the erp system without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. if we are unable to successfully design and implement the new erp system as planned, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. additionally, if we do not effectively implement the erp system as planned or the erp system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. we enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. we enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. these commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. in entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. we do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. refer to note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies. interest rate risk the total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2019 and 2018 was $350 million. the notional amount relates to fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt at december 31, 2019 and 2018. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2019 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.5 million for the full year 2019 and 2018, respectively. in addition, the total amount of short-term debt, net of cash, amounted to net cash of $461 million and net short-term debt of $610 million, respectively, at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this variable-rate short-term debt as of december 31, 2019 would have increased interest expense by approximately $4.3 million for the full year 2019 and $9.0 million for the full year 2018. we consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 by approximately $246 million and $121 million, respectively. however, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 37 foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. we also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the united states. we generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 12 months. a summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: december 31, 2019 2018 contract amount primary currencies contract amount primary currencies in millions of dollars foreign currency forward exchange contracts to purchase foreign currencies $ 110.8 euros british pound malaysian ringgit $ 33.4 euros british pound foreign currency forward exchange contracts to sell foreign currencies $ 125.8 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen $ 51.8 canadian dollars brazilian reals japanese yen the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. we estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , the net fair value of these instruments was an asset of $1.0 million and an asset of $2.5 million, respectively. in addition, assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $55.4 million and $4.5 million, respectively, generally offset by a reduction in foreign exchange associated with our transactional activities. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 38 commodities price risk management and futures contracts our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, corn products, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. the cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. these factors include: commodity market fluctuations; foreign currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield and quality; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; import/export requirements for raw materials and finished goods; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. we use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn products, certain dairy products, natural gas and diesel fuel primarily to mitigate price volatility and provide visibility to future costs within our supply chain. currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. we attempt to minimize the effect of future raw material and energy price fluctuations by using derivatives and forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. however, dairy futures liquidity is not as developed as many of the other commodity futures markets and, therefore, it can be difficult to hedge dairy costs for extended periods of time. we use diesel fuel futures to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. our commodity procurement practices are intended to mitigate price volatility and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices. cocoa products during 2019, average cocoa futures contract prices decreased compared with 2018 and traded in a range between $0.90 and $1.14 per pound, based on the intercontinental exchange futures contract. cocoa production was higher during the 2018 to 2019 crop year but was slightly outpaced by the increase in global demand, which led to a small reduction in global cocoa stocks over the past year. at the beginning of the year, cocoa prices declined due to higher production in west africa before rallying in the second half due to sustained consumption. the table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. the prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the intercontinental exchange. cocoa futures contract prices (dollars per pound) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 annual average $ 1.03 $ 1.06 $ 0.91 $ 1.29 $ 1.40 high 1.14 1.23 0.99 1.38 1.53 low 0.90 0.88 0.87 1.03 1.28 source: international cocoa organization quarterly bulletin of cocoa statistics our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. as a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 39 sugar the price of sugar is subject to price supports under u.s. farm legislation. such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. as a result, sugar prices paid by users in the united states are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. united states delivered east coast refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.40 to $0.47 per pound during 2019. prices rallied in late 2019 due to a poor sugar beet harvest in the upper midwest and west. corn products we uses corn futures to price our corn sweetener product requirements. excessive spring rains caused late plantings, which resulted in lower yields compared to a record crop in 2018. corn prices traded in a range from $3.52 to $4.73 per bushel during 2019. dairy products during 2019, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.15 per pound to a high of $0.17 per pound, on a class iv milk basis. fluid dairy milk prices were higher than 2018, driven by declines in u.s. milk production. peanuts and almonds peanut prices in the united states ranged from a low of $0.45 per pound to a high of $0.55 per pound. adverse weather conditions in the southeast u.s. during the end of the growing season have resulted in lower quality and higher prices. almond prices began the year at $2.99 per pound and closed the year at $3.39 per pound, driven by strong shipments and lower than expected yields for the 2019 crop. changes in the value of futures contracts we make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the intercontinental exchange or various other exchanges. these changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. the cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. commodity sensitivity analysis our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $589.7 million as of december 31, 2019 and $693.5 million as of december 31, 2018. at the end of 2019, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2019 by $58.6 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. the hershey company | 2019 form 10-k | page 40risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological conditions, risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. annual savings from initiatives to advance our value-enhancing strategy may be less than we expect. in february 2007, we announced a comprehensive, supply chain transformation program which includes a phased three-year plan to enhance our manufacturing, sourcing and customer service capabilities. we expect ongoing annual savings from this program and previous initiatives to generate significant savings to invest in our growth initiatives and to advance our value-enhancing strategy. if ongoing annual savings do not meet our expectations, we may not obtain the anticipated future benefits. increases in raw material and energy costs could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa, sugar, milk, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; 8 speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product size may also result in a reduction in sales volume. if we are not able to increase our selling prices sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. implementation of our supply chain transformation program may not occur within the anticipated timeframe and/or may exceed our cost estimates. we announced a supply chain transformation program in february 2007 which is expected to be completed by december 2009. we estimate that this program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs of $525 million to $575 million over the three-year period. completion of this program is subject to multiple operating and executional risks, including coordination of manufacturing changes, production line startups, cross-border legal, regulatory and political issues, and foreign currency exchange risks, among others. if we are not able to complete the program initiatives within the anticipated timeframe and within our cost estimates, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of our retired employees decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. the fair value of our pension plan assets exceeded pension benefits obligations as of december 31, 2006. however, a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. increases in our stock price could increase expenses. changes in the price of our common stock expose us to market risks. expenses for incentive compensation could increase due to an increase in the price of our common stock. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. continued success is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products, effective retail execution, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and the ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations. in addition, success depends on our response to consumer trends, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics. 9 our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for more than 25% of total net sales in 2006 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. in this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive, as is the broader snack market. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. this could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2006, we derived approximately 10.9% of our net sales from customers located outside the united states. in addition, portions of our total assets are located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; and the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies. 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 31 through 35. 48risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. annual savings from initiatives to transform our supply chain and advance our value-enhancing strategy may be less than we expect. in february 2007, we announced a comprehensive, supply chain transformation program which includes a phased three-year plan to enhance our manufacturing, sourcing and customer service capabilities. we expect ongoing annual savings from this program and previous initiatives to generate significant savings to invest in our growth initiatives and to advance our value-enhancing strategy. if ongoing annual savings do not meet our expectations, we may not obtain the anticipated future benefits. increases in raw material and energy costs could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa beans, cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 9 table of contents price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product size may also result in a reduction in sales volume. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. implementation of our supply chain transformation program may not occur within the anticipated timeframe and/or may exceed our cost estimates. we announced a comprehensive supply chain transformation program in february 2007 which is expected to be completed by december 2009. we estimate that this program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs of $525 million to $575 million over the three-year period. completion of this program is subject to multiple operating and executional risks, including coordination of manufacturing changes, production line startups, cross-border legal, regulatory and political issues, and foreign currency exchange risks, among others. if we are not able to complete the program initiatives within the anticipated timeframe and within our cost estimates, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall, resulting in harm to the company reputation and negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. a product recall and related temporary plant closure during the fourth quarter of 2006 was caused by a contaminated ingredient purchased from an outside supplier. we have filed a claim for damages and are currently in litigation. a receivable was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets related to the anticipated recovery of damages. future developments in this case could impact our ability to recover the costs we incurred for the recall and temporary plant closure from responsible third-parties. future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry could impact our reputation, the regulatory environment under which we operate, and our operating results. government regulators are investigating alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industries in certain jurisdictions. we are cooperating fully with all relevant authorities. these allegations could have a negative impact on our company reputation. we may also be subject to subsequent litigation or government action, including payment of fines or damages. we may incur increased costs associated with this investigation. in addition, our costs could increase if we would be required to pay fines or damages, or institute additional, new, government-mandated regulatory controls. these possible actions could negatively impact our future operating results. 10 table of contents pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. pension settlement losses of approximately $11.8 million were incurred during 2007 and we anticipate additional settlement costs in 2008. the fair value of our pension plan assets exceeded pension benefits obligations as of december 31, 2007. however, a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. increases in our stock price could increase expenses. changes in the price of our common stock expose us to market risks. expenses for incentive compensation could increase due to an increase in the price of our common stock. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. continued success is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products, effective retail execution, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and the ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations. in addition, success depends on our response to consumer trends, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 26% of our total net sales in 2007 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. in this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive, as is the broader snack market. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. this could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, 11 table of contents among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2007, we derived approximately 13.8% of our net sales from customers located outside the united states. some of our assets are also located outside of the united states. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; and failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 37 through 40. 51 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material 10 table of contents and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. during 2008 we announced substantial increases in wholesale prices across our chocolate and sugar confectionery product lines to partially offset significant increases in our input costs. since we are honoring previously committed promotions and merchandising events, price increases will not be fully effective until the second half of 2009. if our sales volume decreases significantly or if we need to substantially increase promotional spending as a result of these price increases, there could be a negative impact on our revenue, profitability and cash flows. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. continued success is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products, effective retail execution, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and the ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations. in addition, success depends on our response to consumer trends, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 26% of our total net sales in 2008 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. in this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive, as is the broader snack market. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. this could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. these negative 11 table of contents impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. political, economic, and/or financial market conditions in the united states and abroad could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. continued volatility in food and energy costs, a sustained global recession, rising unemployment, and continued declines in personal spending could adversely impact the company revenues, profitability and financial condition. domestic and international financial institutions have reported significant losses as a result of asset write-offs. in addition, short and long-term debt investors have become increasingly cautious in providing financing to companies. as a result of these two events, our company, our customers and our suppliers could face difficulty in securing debt financing. while governments around the world are enacting measures to support financial institutions and the credit markets, there are no guarantees that these efforts will ultimately succeed. if they do not, increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets could continue. this could result in reduced liquidity for our company, our customers and our suppliers. if current credit market conditions continue, the company could experience an increase in bad debt expense or liquidity may be reduced and short-term financing costs could increase. these conditions could impair our ability to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms, resulting in higher interest expense, or reduced cash flows. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2008, we derived approximately 14.4% of our net sales from customers located outside the united states. some of our assets are also located outside of the united states. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; and failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets. 12 table of contents future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry could impact our reputation, the regulatory environment under which we operate, and our operating results. government regulators are investigating alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in certain jurisdictions. we are cooperating fully with all relevant authorities. these allegations could have a negative impact on our company reputation. we also may be required to incur defense costs in litigation or government action and/or be subject to fines or damages. in addition, our costs could increase if we became subject to new or additional government-mandated regulatory controls. these possible actions could negatively impact our future operating results. pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. pension settlement losses of approximately $15.3 million and $11.8 million were incurred during 2008 and 2007, respectively, and we anticipate additional settlement costs in 2009. as of december 31, 2008, our pension benefits obligations exceeded the fair value of our pension plan assets by $40.8 million. a significant increase in pension expense or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for more information, refer to page 42. annual savings from initiatives to transform our supply chain and advance our value-enhancing strategy may be less than we expect. in february 2007, we announced a comprehensive global supply chain transformation program which includes a phased three-year plan to enhance our manufacturing, sourcing and customer service capabilities. we expect ongoing annual savings from this program and previous initiatives to generate significant savings to invest in our growth initiatives and to advance our value-enhancing strategy. if ongoing annual savings do not meet our expectations, we may not obtain the anticipated future benefits. implementation of our global supply chain transformation program may not occur within the anticipated timeframe and/or may exceed our cost estimates. completion of the global supply chain transformation program is subject to multiple operating and executional risks, including coordination of manufacturing changes, production line startups, cross-border legal, regulatory and political issues, and foreign currency exchange risks, among others. if we are not able to complete the program initiatives within the anticipated timeframe and within our cost estimates, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. we estimate that the global supply chain transformation program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs at the upper end of a $575 million to $600 million range over the three-year implementation period, excluding possible increases in pension settlement charges as discussed on pages 49 and 50. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 36 through 40. 51 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. continued success is dependent on effective retail execution, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, the ability to 10 secure adequate shelf space at retail locations and product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products. in addition, success depends on our response to consumer trends, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 27% of our total net sales in 2009 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. in this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive, as is the broader snack market. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, but are not limited to, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism; strikes; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. 11 we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions, and have plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur. if we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. this could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact the company revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, including a possible increase in bad debt expense. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2009, we derived approximately 14.3% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. some of our assets are also located outside of the united states. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; 12 difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; and failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is an important part of our business operations. we use information technology to manage business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we have backup systems and business continuity plans in place; however, a disruption or failure could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems to function as intended could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry could impact our reputation, the regulatory environment under which we operate, and our operating results. government regulators are investigating alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in certain jurisdictions. we are cooperating fully with all relevant authorities. these allegations could have a negative impact on our company reputation. we also may be required to incur defense costs in litigation and/or be subject to fines or damages. in addition, our costs could increase if we became subject to new or additional government-mandated regulatory controls. these possible actions could negatively impact our future operating results. pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements for our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. a significant increase in pension expense, in pension settlement losses or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for more information, refer to page 43. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required information about market risk is included in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 37 through 40. 49risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or 10 cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products; 11 changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 22.1% of our total net sales in 2010 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. in this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, but are not limited to, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions, and have plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur. if we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, 12 sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2010, we derived approximately 15.2% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. some of our assets are also located outside of the united states. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; 13 potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; and failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is an important part of our business operations. we use information technology to manage business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. we have backup systems and business continuity plans in place; however, a disruption or failure could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems to function as intended could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry could impact our reputation, the regulatory environment under which we operate, and our operating results. government regulators are investigating alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in certain jurisdictions. we are cooperating fully with all relevant authorities. we are also party to a number of civil antitrust suits in the united states and canada. these allegations could have a negative impact on our company reputation. we also may be required to incur defense costs in litigation and/or be subject to fines or damages. in addition, our costs could increase if we became subject to new or additional government-mandated regulatory controls. these possible actions could negatively impact our future operating results. pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements for our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. a significant increase in pension expense, in pension settlement losses or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for more information, refer to page 43. implementation of our project next century program may not occur within the anticipated timeframe and/or may exceed our cost estimates. in addition, annual savings from this initiative may be less than we expect. completion of the project next century program is subject to multiple operating and executional risks, including coordination of manufacturing changes and production line startups, among others. if we are not able to complete the program initiatives within the anticipated timeframe and within our cost estimates and/or if expected cost reductions from efficiency improvements are not realized, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. we estimate that the project next century program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs in the $140 million to $170 million range over the three-year implementation period. when fully implemented, project next century is expected to provide annual cost savings from efficiency improvements of $60 million to $80 million. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required information about market risk is included in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 37 through 41. 50risk factors we are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations. in connection with the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report. many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as intend, believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, projected, estimated and potential, among others. among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the company reputation, negatively impacting our operating results. in order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our company image and reputation. negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. in addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results. increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. we use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: commodity market fluctuations; currency exchange rates; imbalances between supply and demand; the effect of weather on crop yield; speculative influences; 10 trade agreements among producing and consuming nations; supplier compliance with commitments; political unrest in producing countries; and changes in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies. although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. if we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. we may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. if we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. market demand for new and existing products could decline. we operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: effective retail execution; appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations; product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products; changes in product category consumption; our response to consumer demographics and trends; and consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. in these markets, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. our largest customer, mclane company, inc., accounted for approximately 22.3% of our total net sales in 2011. mclane company, inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the united states to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including wal-mart stores, inc. increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. the global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues. some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations. in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. due to inherent risks in the marketplace 11 associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. in addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, but are not limited to, the following: natural disaster; pandemic outbreak of disease; weather; fire or explosion; terrorism or other acts of violence; labor strikes or other labor activities; unavailability of raw or packaging materials; and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions, and have plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur. if we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. these negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others. it is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results. our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition. changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our company, our customers and our suppliers. a significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense. international operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. in 2011, we derived approximately 15.6% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. some of our assets are also located outside of the united states. as part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, brazil, india and china. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; difficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies; and failure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. these processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. 13 we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate critical findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions or failure of information technology systems is possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry could impact our reputation, the regulatory environment under which we operate, and our operating results. government regulators are investigating alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in canada. we are cooperating fully with the relevant authorities. we are also party to a number of civil antitrust suits in the united states and canada. on december 31, 2011, hershey canada, inc. entered into an agreement to settle the canadian lawsuits. the settlement is subject to court approval. these matters could have a negative impact on our company reputation. we also may be required to incur further costs associated with these matters and/or be subject to fines or damages. in addition, our costs could increase if we became subject to new or additional government-mandated regulatory controls. these possible actions could negatively impact our future operating results. pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans. changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. this could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements for our pension plans. additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts. a significant increase in pension expense, in pension settlement losses or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. for more information, refer to page 43. implementation of our project next century program may not occur within the anticipated timeframe and/or may exceed our cost estimates. in addition, annual savings from this initiative may be less than we expect. completion of the project next century program, described in greater detail beginning on page 24, is subject to multiple operating and executional risks, including coordination of manufacturing changes and production line startups, among others. if we are not able to complete the program initiatives within the anticipated timeframe and within our cost estimates and/or if expected cost reductions from efficiency improvements are not realized, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. we estimate that the project next century program will incur pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs in the $150 million to $160 million range over the three-year implementation period. when fully implemented, project next century is expected to provide annual cost savings from efficiency improvements of $65 million to $80 million. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required information about market risk is included in the section entitled accounting policies and market risks associated with derivative instruments, found on pages 37 through 41. 51