quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments and u.s. treasury obligations in which we invest. as of december 31, 2004, we did not invest in equities or corporate fixed-income securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform, nor, with limited exceptions, do we act as principal to the bond transactions completed on our platform. our interest income from money market instruments and u.s. treasury obligations was $0.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2004, $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2003 and $0.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. fluctuations in interest income are attributable to changes in our cash balances or holdings of u.s. treasury securities and fluctuations in interest rates received on those balances or securities. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2004, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $8.3 million, with an unrealized loss of $0.022 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. 74 table of contents, risk factors. item 1. business marketaxess operates one of the leading platforms for the electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of fixed-income securities. our electronic trading platform is accessed by our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients either via a direct connection or over the internet. our 657 active institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005) can access the aggregate liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25 broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our platform. we also provide data and analytical tools that help our clients make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading process by electronically communicating order information between trading counterparties. since our inception, the majority of our revenues have been generated from the trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, although an increasing percentage of our revenues has recently been derived from the trading of european high-grade corporate and emerging markets bonds, from our data and analytical tools and from interest income. our trading commissions are generated from transactions between a broker-dealer client and an institutional investor client. our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. we offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. in addition to u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, we also offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds, new issues and credit default swap indices. to date, however, crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds, new issues and credit default swap indices do not represent a significant component of our revenues. we derive our revenues primarily from commissions paid by our broker-dealer clients for trades executed on our platform (which represented 85.2% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005) and, to a lesser extent, from information and user access fees charged to our clients (which represented 5.6% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005), interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalent and securities balance (which represented 4.0% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005) and license fees for access to our trading platform charged to certain of our broker-dealer clients (which represented 3.8% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005). traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process, which is still how most corporate bonds 1 are traded, has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. in recent years, an increasing number of corporate bond trading participants have utilized e-mail and other electronic means of communication (including proprietary, single-dealer systems) for trading corporate bonds. while this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. through our electronic platform, our institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to -treasury data, search capabilities and independent credit research) available on our corporate bondticker tm service and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients during the trade process. on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. however, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we are not a party to the actual trades that occur on our platform and we do not at any time take title to the traded securities or the proceeds from the sale of such securities. rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. our client base includes 25 of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading and 657 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005), including 80 of the top 100 global holders of u.s. corporate bonds, as measured by thomson financial. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds and in excess of 60% of the underwriting of newly issued european high-grade corporate bonds in 2005, and include 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new issue underwriting volume of european high-grade corporate bonds. we believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by traditional means including telephone, e-mail and proprietary, single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. we believe that these traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented 7.6% of the total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2005 as reported by the national association of securities dealers, inc. ( nasd ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ), which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to -dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. 2 results for calendar years 2005, 2004 and 2003 we experienced significant growth in total trading volume, total commissions and income before taxes from 2003 to 2004. however, total trading volume and total commissions remained relatively constant from 2004 to 2005 and income before taxes declined as a result of higher expenses in 2005 as compared to 2004, as illustrated in the following table: year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 total trading volume (in billions) $ 299.2 $ 298.1 $ 192.2 total commissions (in millions) 66.9 68.2 52.8 income before taxes (in millions) 11.6 17.3 4.4 for the year ended december 31, 2005, 59.4% of our trading volume was in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, 24.5% of our trading volume was in european high-grade corporate bonds and 16.1% of our trading volume was in other bonds, most of which are emerging markets bonds. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of december 31, 2005, there were approximately $25.3 trillion of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $5.0 trillion of u.s. corporate bonds. we are primarily active in seven segments of the global fixed-income securities market: u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; european high-grade corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds; crossover and high-yield bonds; agency bonds; new issues; and credit default swap indices. u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the total amount of u.s. corporate bonds outstanding has grown from $3.0 trillion as of december 31, 1999 to $5.0 trillion as of december 31, 2005. the average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds increased from approximately $19.0 billion in 2002 (the first calendar year for which such data are available) to approximately $21.0 billion at the end of 2005. the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard poor s, or baa3 or better by moody investor service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market, has undergone significant change over the last several years, which has been driven by a number of factors, including: improved price transparency in 2002, the nasd adopted trace reporting, which requires nasd members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to the nasd. since february 2005, the list of trace-eligible bonds has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds. introduction of electronic trading platforms electronic trading platforms, which are in the early stages of adoption, act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. the actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and analysis of competing offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. as a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade execution than previously possible. 3 introduction of credit derivatives credit derivatives provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding credit default swaps, which increased from approximately $900 billion at december 31, 2001 to approximately $12.4 trillion at june 30, 2005. growth in the total amount of debt outstanding the total size of the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market has increased significantly since 1998, when approximately $564 billion gross amount of new bonds were issued, as compared to approximately $627 billion during 2005. european high-grade corporate bond market the european high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. we believe that the european high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. in addition, we believe the following factors are unique to the european high-grade corporate bond market: adoption of the euro the adoption of the euro as the common currency in most european union countries has reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection criterion and elevated the importance of the credit risk of particular issuers. as a result, institutional investors have exhibited a greater interest in investing in a broader range of bonds issued by entities domiciled outside of their home countries. regulatory environment certain european union countries have eased restrictions that required institutional investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. this has provided european institutional investors with increased flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled in other countries within the european union. common liquidity pool the larger capital pool created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory environment have enabled european corporations to offer larger issues, which has resulted in increases in the liquidity and trading volumes of these issues. this has attracted even more institutional investors, who prefer to invest in highly-liquid markets. emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar- or euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds has recently expanded to include many crossover investors from the more mainstream high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential, as well as by a general trend toward positive economic and political reforms and improving economic performance in many emerging markets countries. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. the total amount of high-yield corporate bonds outstanding has grown from $875 billion as of december 31, 2003 to approximately $1.0 trillion as of december 31, 2005. 4 the nasd began publicly disseminating real-time price information on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond issues in 2005. trades in bonds rated bb and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an average of once or more a day. the disseminated set was expanded on february 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain transactions on a delayed basis. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by the nasd for the year ended december 31, 2005 was $5.26 billion. we believe that the average daily trading volume in the high-yield corporate bond market has grown during 2005 partly as the result of downgrades of some large corporate bond issuers, including ford and general motors. agency bond market we define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored agency. the offerings of these agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the u.s. government. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the student loan marketing association ( sallie mae ), federal national mortgage association ( fannie mae ) and federal home loan mortgage corporation ( freddie mac ). the total amount of long term debt issued by u.s. federal agencies declined from $1.2 trillion in 2003 to $670 billion in 2005. the federal reserve bank of new york reported average daily trading volume in federal agency coupon securities for 2005 of $17.1 billion. new issues the new issues market for fixed-income securities, also referred to as the primary market, refers to that part of the capital markets that deals with the issuance of new securities, a process whereby companies, governments or public sector institutions obtain funding through the sale of a new bond issue. the new issuance process typically involves a syndicate of securities dealers, who purchase the newly-issued bonds from the issuer after arranging for placement of the bonds with institutional and other investors. total debt outstanding in the u.s. bond markets as of december 31, 2005 was $25.3 trillion, with corporate bonds accounting for 19.8% or $5.0 trillion of the total. total bond issuance in the u.s. bond markets in 2005 reached $5.5 trillion, a 0.5% increase from 2004. corporate bond issuance decreased to $701.7 billion in 2005, compared to $727.9 billion in 2004 and $762.7 billion in 2003. in 2005 investment-grade debt accounted for 89% of the corporate bond issuance with the high-yield sector accounting for 11% of the issuance. the level of corporate bond issuance is dependant on a number of factors including the funding needs of issuers, investor demand for corporate bonds and the level of interest rates. credit default swap market credit default swaps are contracts that transfer an asset risk and return from one party to another without transferring ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. they are often designed to hedge other exposures and can be tied to particular events, such as a default, bankruptcy or ratings downgrade. credit default swaps provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit risk. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding credit default swaps, which increased from approximately $900 billion at december 31, 2001 to approximately $12.4 trillion at june 30, 2005. 5 our competitive strengths our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. the benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle: pre-trade gathering real-time and historical pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis; trade single and multiple security trade execution; and post-trade trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail. we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of 25 of the leading global securities broker-dealers and 657 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005). we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients, which includes 80 of the top 100 global holders of u.s. corporate bonds, as measured by thomson financial. we believe that if we continue to grow the participation of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, the benefits in liquidity on the platform to both broker-dealers and institutional investors will be amplified, further motivating them to use our platform. currently, the majority of trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading methods, implying significant opportunity for us to continue to grow our trading volume. our trading volume across all of our products increased from $192.2 billion in 2003 to $298.1 billion in 2004 and to $299.2 billion in 2005. our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented 7.6% of the total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2005 as reported by nasd trace, which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to -dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. execution benefits to clients benefits to institutional investor clients we believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: competitive prices. by enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. for typical marketaxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to -treasury responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). as an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $750.00. transparent pricing on a range of securities. the commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily average of more than $130 billion in indicative bids and offers. subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in 6 inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to -treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of u.s. and european corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within a time period specified by the investor. improved cost efficiency. we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. in addition, our corporate bondticker eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. benefits to broker-dealer clients we also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: greater sales efficiency. we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. more efficient inventory management for broker-dealers. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure. benefits to both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients we offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including: greater trading accuracy. our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platform assists our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from information being manually entered into different systems. efficient risk monitoring and compliance. institutional investors and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed income trades. our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information including time, price and spread-to -treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. these data also represent a valuable source of information for our clients compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. other service offerings in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including: 7 information services. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our corporate bondticker provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and marketaxess estimated spread-to -treasuries for publicly disseminated nasd trace-eligible bonds. corporate bondticker combines publicly-available trace data with the prices for trades executed on our u.s. high-grade electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time trace data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. in addition, corporate bondticker provides indicative prices for secondary loans and credit default swaps, through arrangements with certain of our broker-dealer clients, and independent credit research. our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information gathering process or other electronic services. straight-through processing. straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to -end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. our electronic trading platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from marketaxess in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation. robust, scalable technology platform we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. our management team is comprised of executives with an average of more than 20 years experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. euromoney magazine recognized marketaxess as offering the best multi-dealer trading platform for corporate bonds in 2003 and 2004. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades; corporate bondticker, our information services product, combining nasd trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools; bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously; and the first client-to -dealer trading platform for credit default swap indices, enabling same-day confirmation of new and assigned trades through the depository trust and clearing corporation. our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: 8 enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platform and broaden our client base in our existing markets we intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the marketaxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. we will seek to make our current product offerings on our european electronic trading platform available to our 432 active u.s. institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005) and to increase the number of active european institutional investor clients (225 firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january and december 2005) using our u.s. electronic trading platform, in each case subject to regulatory requirements. leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new segments of the fixed-income securities market we intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities market. due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter into new markets with relatively little technology modification and incremental cost. continue to strengthen and expand our trade-related service offerings we plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also plan to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to -end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation to settlement). we are continually considering the introduction of new trading techniques. as an example, we have the technology necessary to offer anonymous trading of fixed-income securities if and when the market opportunity for such a product arises. expand our data and information services offerings we regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to corporate bondticker in order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. examples of added content include pricing for syndicated loans and credit derivatives, and independent credit research. we intend to enter into distribution agreements with information and data services companies in order to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. in july 2005, we entered into an agreement with interactive data corporation, through its subsidiary, ft interactive data, to promote and market corporate bondticker. we expect this and other distribution partnerships to broaden our presence in the marketplace and increase our brand awareness. we intend to seek out additional market leaders in various segments of the securities industry and leverage their existing customer bases and distribution channels to further our data services market penetration. as the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients. pursue strategic alliances and select acquisitions we plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. in december 2005, we announced an arrangement with bloomberg l.p. ( bloomberg ) to establish a direct interface between the marketaxess electronic credit trading platform and the bloomberg portfolio order management system ( poms ) on the bloomberg professional(r) service. the interface between the 9 company and bloomberg allows marketaxess users of bloomberg poms to send trade inquiries from their poms fixed-income blotter directly into the marketaxess trading platform. upon execution of a trade, marketaxess will then transmit the filled orders back to bloomberg poms. this new workflow eliminates several manual re-keying steps in the trade processing cycle, enhancing straight-through processing for marketaxess clients who are also users of bloomberg poms. increase usage of our trading platform by hedge funds we plan to continue to actively market our trading platform to hedge funds. we are investing in products that suit the needs of this client segment, and we have reconfigured our sales teams to improve our service to hedge funds. we believe that the launch of credit default swap index trading on our platform will enable us to increase volumes from our hedge fund clients, as this client segment is an active user of credit default swaps. marketaxess electronic trading platform current markets u.s. high-grade corporate bonds our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. institutional investors based in the u.s., as well as institutional investors located in the u.k., germany, belgium, switzerland, sweden, norway, hong kong and singapore, have access to u.s. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. investment-grade debt typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard poor and baa3 or better by moody investor service. we use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. our trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market increased from $10.0 billion in 2001 to $177.6 billion in 2005. the majority of trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds is still conducted by telephone. in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 19 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume. four hundred thirty-two active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005) utilize our electronic trading platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. we offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. our electronic trading platform is a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model, which allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. by disclosing the counterparties, the inquiry system on which our trading platform is based combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading platform. this enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the overwhelming majority of the world leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients, representing indicative bids and offers. each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client. institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. in a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to all 19 of our u.s. broker-dealer clients. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. 10 european high-grade corporate bonds the european high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets country and most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency; bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging market; bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities, such as the world bank, which include a number of central banks or government financial authorities), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. marketaxess europe limited, our wholly-owned u.k. subsidiary, commenced trading operations in august 2001. marketaxess europe limited received financial services authority ( fsa ) regulatory approval and began to offer european secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in september 2001. in 2003, we added trading in other european high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in pounds sterling and floating rate notes. as on our u.s. electronic trading platform, all trading on our european platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model. we offered the first platform in europe with this capability for corporate bonds. in the european high-grade credit market, 20 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume of european corporate bonds. the 20 broker-dealers who utilize our european platform are: abn amro, banc of america securities, barclays, bear stearns, bnp paribas, citigroup, credit suisse, deutsche bank, dresdner bank ag, dz bank ag, goldman sachs, hsbc, jpmorgan, lehman brothers, merrill lynch, morgan stanley, royal bank of canada, the royal bank of scotland, soci t g n rale and ubs. the 225 active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our european electronic trading platform between january 2005 and december 2005) that utilize our platform for trading european high-grade corporate bonds are based outside of the u.s. on a typical day, institutional investors on our european corporate bond trading platform have access to approximately 18,000 line items of commingled inventory, representing an aggregate of approximately $90 billion of indicative bids and offers. in a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the european platform. while many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our 2005 trading volume in the european high-grade corporate bond market was $73.4 billion. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the total volume of client-to -dealer trading in the european high-grade corporate bond market and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this trading that takes place on our platform. the majority of trading in european high-grade corporate bonds is currently conducted by telephone. emerging markets bonds we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar- or euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are 11 typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2005 were brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. seventeen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to eight of these 17 participating broker-dealer clients. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the total volume of client-to -dealer trading in emerging markets bonds and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this trading that is taking place on our platform. the majority of trading in emerging markets bonds is currently conducted by telephone. new issues for newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds and for newly-issued emerging markets bonds, we enable u.s. institutional investors to submit indications of interest on our electronic trading platform directly to the underwriter syndicate desks of our broker-dealer clients. institutional investors can access the new-issue calendar, prospectuses, transaction terms and online allocations on our platform. our broker-dealer clients add the indications of interest for new issues submitted on our platform to the indications of interest they receive through traditional offline methods to build their order book for an offering. by making u.s. high-grade new issues available on the marketaxess platform, issuers and broker-dealers are able to reach a broader base of institutional investors and are able to leverage our technology to efficiently and effectively communicate with institutional investors throughout the offering process. issuers are also given greater visibility into the number and size of the indications of interest and firm commitments to purchase their bonds. institutional investors are given another method to gain information regarding, and better access to, new issues. in the new-issues market, eleven broker-dealers utilize our platform, all of whom are in the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume and who collectively represented the majority of new-issue underwriting volume in 2005. these dealers also continue to use traditional distribution channels for new issues. all of our u.s. institutional investors have access to our electronic trading platform for new-issue bonds. in 2005, approximately $150 billion of new issues inventory was made available on our platform, representing approximately 21% of all u.s. high-grade corporate bond new issues during the year. crossover and high-yield bonds we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service. we define the crossover market as any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. fourteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all 14 of the participating broker-dealer clients. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by the nasd for the year ended december 31, 2005 was $5.26 billion. agency bonds we define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored agency. the offerings of these agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the u.s. government. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the student loan marketing association (sallie mae), federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and federal home loan mortgage corporation (freddie mac). the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion as of december 31, 2000 to $2.6 trillion as of december 31, 2005. ten of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade agency bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all ten of the participating broker-dealer clients. 12 the federal reserve bank of new york reported average daily trading volume in federal agency coupon securities for 2005 of $17.1 billion. credit default swaps we launched credit default swap index trading on our platform on september 12, 2005. we have entered into an arrangement with the depository trust clearing corporation wholly-owned subsidiary, deriv/ serv, a full-service provider of automated trade processing solutions in the otc derivatives market. marketaxess has integrated its front-end credit default swaps, or cds, index trading system with deriv/ serv, allowing it to offer an end-to -end electronic trading solution designed to eliminate trade discrepancies and expedite the confirmation process. marketaxess also subscribes to markit group limited red service, the industry standard for reference entity and reference obligation identifiers in the credit derivatives market. the markit red data will help marketaxess achieve straight-through processing for its institutional investor clients from pre-trade through confirmation. ten of our u.s. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to trade credit default swap indices. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to 4 of the ten participating broker-dealer clients. key trading functionalities single inquiry trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for european high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform. institutional investors can choose when they would like the broker-dealers prices or spreads to be returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. as part of the price discovery process, institutional investors and broker-dealers can also see the transaction history of the security they are buying or selling by accessing corporate bondticker before executing a transaction. list trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 25 items, depending on the market. this facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as mutual funds and hedge funds. institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure. swap trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield differential of the securities. information and analytical tools corporate bondticker tm corporate bondticker provides real-time nasd trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. the data include trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to -treasuries, for trades disseminated by the nasd trace system. the data also include actual execution prices and spread-to -treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. corporate bondticker allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential 13 securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct trace feeds. in addition, corporate bondticker provides independent credit research, as well as indicative prices for secondary markets in loans and credit default swaps. trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the -counter secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities. all broker-dealers that are nasd member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the nasd then publicly disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of charge on a delayed basis through the nasd website or available immediately for a set fee. corporate bondticker is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. corporate bondticker is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via an easy-to -use browser-based interface. we provide corporate bondticker as an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. we derive revenues from our corporate bondticker service by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. seat license fees from institutional investor clients are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through marketaxess. we have recently added additional analytical capabilities to our information services offerings that aim to provide clients with more information about bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. these statistics measure a security trading activity relative to its amount outstanding and relative to the overall market, respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative liquidity. in addition, we provide pricing measures to help institutional investors better assess the relative value of a corporate bond, providing more consistent relative pricing information for institutional investors, such as offering spread data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the u.s. treasury curve. users are also able to download a variety of marketaxess-compiled trade reports containing a comprehensive review of trading activity. corporate bondticker is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal. my portfolio institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond portfolio onto our electronic trading platform utilizing the my portfolio trading feature. institutional investors who utilize my portfolio benefit from the ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. users of this feature can also directly access corporate bondticker to obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio. marketaxess research marketaxess research provides fixed-income, macroeconomic and strategy research reports offered by 11 of our broker-dealer clients: abn amro, banc of america securities, bear stearns, bnp paribas, credit suisse, deutsche bank, hsbc, jpmorgan, lehman brothers, morgan stanley and ubs. these broker-dealers determine which research reports to make available on our platform and when they will be made available. users of this service benefit from being able to access these reports in one place, rather than having to go to multiple broker-dealer websites. in addition, clients can utilize advanced search capabilities for finding content and can customize the look and feel of the research views, as well as create e-mail driven research alerts. straight-through processing straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to -end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. there are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and 14 external straight-through processing. internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. for example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. external straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process. automation by way of straight-through processing improves the efficiency of the trade cycle. we provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to -use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during 2005. in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business between the first quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2005, the number of orders uploaded electronically increased from 0.2% to 9.1% of total volume, the number of online allocations increased from 16.9% to 23.6% of total volume and the number of completed trades delivered to institutional investor clients through our post-trade messaging functionality increased from 24.4% to 34.5% of total volume. dependence on our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders revenues we have historically earned the majority of our commissions and revenues from nine broker-dealer clients (abn amro, bnp paribas, banc of america, bear stearns, credit suisse, deutsche bank, jpmorgan, lehman brothers and ubs) that were (or whose affiliates were) also our stockholders as of december 31, 2005. affiliates of most of our broker-dealer clients are also among our institutional investor clients. information relating to the percentage of our commissions and the percentage of our revenues generated by these nine broker-dealer clients is provided in the chart below: year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 percentage of commissions generated by broker-dealer client stockholders and their respective affiliates 54.7% 57.7% 62.5% percentage of total revenues generated by broker-dealer client stockholders and their respective affiliates 49.7% 53.6% 57.0% our broker-dealer clients are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. for more information, see item 1a., risk factors risk factors that may affect future results we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which are also our stockholders, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. board of directors we currently have nine directors, eight of whom are not our employees. of the eight non-employee directors, two are employees of entities that are affiliates of broker-dealer clients and stockholders of marketaxess, although these entities do not have the contractual right to designate members of our board of directors. 15 other businesses our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by means other than our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including telephone conversations, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication, including proprietary, single-dealer systems. we cannot be assured that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. other companies, including some in which certain of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. stock ownership by our broker-dealer clients as of december 31, 2005, nine of our broker-dealer clients (abn amro, bnp paribas, banc of america, bear stearns, credit suisse, deutsche bank, jpmorgan, lehman brothers and ubs), or their affiliates, were stockholders of ours. as of december 31, 2005, these nine broker-dealer clients owned 17,860,982 shares of our common stock, our non-voting common stock and shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants, including approximately 38.7% of our outstanding common stock. to the extent that some or all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly, they are likely to be able to influence decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. conflicts of interest for more information concerning the potential conflicts of interest that may arise as a result of the various roles (broker-dealer client and stockholder) played by certain of our broker-dealer clients, please see the section item 1a., risk factors risk factors that may affect future results risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force of 15 people located in the u.s. and 12 people located in the u.k. is organized into four teams: u.s. client sales, european client sales, u.s dealer relations and european dealer relations. they are responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients. their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish corporate bondticker as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. competition the electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face four main areas of competition: telephone we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. 16 e-mail we compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. e-mail provides an efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence. these include thomson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that has historically focused on government bond trading, and bloomberg, which provides electronic trading functionality. thomson tradeweb has launched an electronic corporate bond trading platform. in addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer over an electronic medium. we believe that we are currently the only platform primarily focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products between broker-dealers and institutional investors, though others have or may seek to expand their product offerings to compete in this market. additionally, as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services and may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform. competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: liquidity provided on the electronic trading platform; magnitude and frequency of price improvement; facilitating the quality and speed of execution; total transaction costs; technology capabilities, including the ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and range of products and services offered. we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. our trading volume and client acceptance have grown over the past three years and we continue to proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets. our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building application programming interfaces with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services. furthermore, a number of our institutional investors clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the commitment of these institutional investor clients to our services. 17 many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. significant consolidation has occurred in our industry and these firms, as well as others that may undertake such consolidation in the future, are potential competitors of ours. technology the design and quality of our technology are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable, client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platform is built on industry-standard technologies. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in case the main equipment fails. this offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. we have designed our application with an easy-to -use, windows-based interface. through a secure, single sign-on, our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. in february 2005, we completed the transition to new internally-developed software that integrated our emerging markets and european bond platforms with our u.s. high-grade corporate bond platform. the new trading platforms incorporate the feedback we received from our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. the new platforms offer enhanced functionality and greater ease-of -use. additionally, they consolidate separate trading protocols and systems, thereby reducing the ongoing development and maintenance costs associated with maintaining multiple technology platforms. the new platforms have been designed to handle six times our current trading volume. intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, web site and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we currently have six patent applications pending, covering certain aspects of our business. the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms, and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade secret rights. 18 we have obtained u.s. federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. we have pending registrations for the marketaxess name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. in addition, we have obtained u.s. federal registration for the marks autospotting , bondlink , frontpage , actives and associated designs. corporate bondticker is a trademark we use, but it has not been registered. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. as a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the u.s. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. our electronic trading platform facilitates broker-dealers completing trades with their institutional investor clients. with limited exceptions, we are not a party to these trades, we do not hold any bonds in inventory, we are not directly involved in the clearance or settlement of trades and we take no custody of client funds or securities. regulation of the u.s. securities industry and broker-dealers in the u.s., the sec is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. our u.s. subsidiary, marketaxess corporation, is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer. it is also a member of the nasd, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. in addition, marketaxess corporation is a member of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protection for clients accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer. finally, marketaxess corporation is registered with certain states and the district of columbia as a broker-dealer. the states and the district of columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective blue sky laws, rules and regulations. regulation of the non-u.s. securities industries and investment service providers the securities industry and financial markets in the u.k., the european union and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. marketaxess europe limited may fall within the scope of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is characterized as providing a regulated investment service. our principal regulator in the u.k. is the fsa. our subsidiary, marketaxess europe limited, is registered as an alternative trading system ( ats ) with the fsa. the securities industry in the member states of the european union is regulated by agencies in each member state. european union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services which, in general, is valid throughout the european union. as an fsa-approved ats, marketaxess europe limited receives the benefit of this authorization. in may 2003, we incorporated a canadian subsidiary, marketaxess canada limited. it has applied for registration under the securities act in ontario and is in the process of seeking approval for membership with the investment dealers association of canada. 19 employees as of december 31, 2005, we had 182 employees, 149 of whom were based in the u.s. and 33 of whom were based in the u.k. none of our employees is represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k; our quarterly reports on form 10-q; our current reports on form 8-k; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 140 broadway new york, ny 10005 attn: investor relations in addition, our board of directors has standing audit, compensation and nominating committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors. our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of each committee charter, along with the corporate governance guidelines, are also posted on our website. the information on our corporate website is not incorporated by reference into this report. we have obtained federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, as well as for the marks auto-spotting , bondlink , actives and frontpage . other trademarks and service marks appearing in this annual report on form 10-k are the property of their respective holders. item 1a. risk factors risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which were also our stockholders as of december 31, 2005, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. although each broker-dealer client is currently a party to an agreement with us, the obligations of each broker-dealer under these agreements are minimal. none of these agreements is exclusive and broker-dealers may terminate such agreements and/or enter into, and in some cases have entered into, similar agreements with our competitors. for example, some of our broker-dealer clients are also clients of thompson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that operates an online corporate bond trading platform. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including telephone conversations, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication. currently, the preponderance of trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading methods. most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are 20 involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may compete with us and our electronic trading platform now and in the future. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading networks. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us, including, either individually or collectively, organizing or investing in a separate company similar to us for the purpose of competing with us or pursuing corporate opportunities that might be attractive to us. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from the nine broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders as of december 31, 2005. for the year ended december 31, 2005, $36.6 million or 54.7% of our commissions, for the year ended december 31, 2004, $39.3 million or 57.7% of our commissions, and for the year ended december 31, 2003, $33.0 million or 62.5% of our commissions were generated by these nine broker-dealer clients. none of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to their loss of a right to designate a member of our board of directors or the potential reduction in the level of their equity ownership if these entities should sell shares of our common stock, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. several of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. as of december 31, 2005, nine of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that are different from ours and those of our other stockholders. for example, in their capacity as broker-dealer clients, they would presumably favor lower commissions and/or commission caps. furthermore, as stockholders in other consortia that have developed competitive electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of competitive electronic trading networks, they may decide to direct some or all of their electronic trading business to one or more of our competitors. while these actions, if taken, would presumably reduce our revenues and our market capitalization and, therefore, the value of their ownership position in us, there can be no assurance that they will not decide to take such actions for their own strategic reasons. we are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among our broker-dealer clients; however, they may enter into a voting agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner. to the extent that all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote 21 similarly, they will be able to determine decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. as a result, they or their affiliates may be able to: control the composition of our board of directors through their ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect them; control our management and policies; and determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to other stockholders. as a result of these factors, we may be less likely to pursue relationships with strategic partners who are not stockholders of ours, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. furthermore, these factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change in control or sale of marketaxess. future sales of shares by our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly and/or limit our ability to utilize certain income tax benefits. subject to compliance with the federal securities laws, all of the shares of common stock and non-voting common stock owned by our broker-dealer clients are eligible for resale in the public market, subject, in the case of affiliates of marketaxess, to volume limitations on resale. in addition, to the extent any future sales of common stock by our broker-dealer clients result in an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code ( section 382 ), we may not be able to realize certain income tax benefits resulting from our net operating loss carryforwards existing at the date of such ownership change. an ownership change as defined in section 382 occurs when there is a 50% or greater change in a company stock ownership over a rolling three-year period. for more information regarding these potential income tax benefits and our net operating loss carryforwards, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations revenues and expenses income taxes. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are, and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, engineering, technical, marketing 22 and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. we have experienced losses and may incur losses in the future. our losses were $16.8 million from the period of inception through december 31, 2000, $65.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2001 and $36.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. for the year ended december 31, 2003, we reported net income of $4.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2004, we reported net income of $57.6 million, which included $46.1 million in income which was recognized upon our reassessment of the likelihood of realization of a portion of our deferred tax assets, and for the year ended december 31, 2005 we reported net income of $8.1 million. we expect that our expenses will increase in the near term as we continue to expand our business and in order to meet the requirements related to being a public company. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sustain profitability and we may incur losses in future periods. if we are not able to sustain profitability, our stock price may decline. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor our historical growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the use of our electronic trading platform is relatively new. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive a majority of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our trading volume for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds has remained relatively constant since 2004 and our commissions from such trading have also remained relatively constant for the year ended december 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended december 31, 2004. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. our plans to pursue other opportunities for revenue growth are at an early stage, and we cannot assure you that our plans will be successful or that we will actually proceed with them as described. because we have a limited operating history, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. marketaxess was formed in april 2000 and pilot trading on our electronic trading platform began in october 2000, with the commercial launch of the platform in january 2001. as a result, we have only a limited operating history from which you can evaluate our business and our prospects. we will encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; 23 respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform could harm our business and profitability. we have experienced decreases in overall trading volume in certain periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers may be less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because our commissions are largely variable but a significant portion of our costs is fixed. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. we base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealers and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the rate of expansion and effectiveness of our sales force; 24 new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, 25 information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of -date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or a deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow 26 delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. 27 in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause broker-dealers and clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have filed 24 patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes from competition. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. 28 defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to enter into additional marketing and strategic alliances or if our current strategic alliances are not successful, we may not maintain the current level of trading or generate increased trading on our trading platform. from time to time, we may enter into strategic alliances that will enable us to enter new markets, provide products or services that we do not currently offer or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. entering into joint ventures and alliances entails risks, including: difficulties in developing and expanding the business of newly formed joint ventures; exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest; and potential conflicts with or among our joint venture or alliance partners. we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into new strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. these arrangements, if entered into, may not generate the expected number of new clients or increased trading volume we are seeking. unsuccessful joint ventures or alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of -pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. 30 because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has grown more competitive in recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth. domestic and international labor markets have tightened in concert with the continuing recovery in general economic conditions. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the implementation of sfas 123(r) relating to the expensing of share based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and the nasd. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in the nasd and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as an alternative trading system, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. 31 changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats, or a decision by us to reactivate our anonymous trading platform, which is regulated as an alternative trading system, would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. in november 2000, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice in connection with the antitrust division investigation of electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. after compliance with all information requests, we received notice from the u.s. department of justice in 2004 that the investigation was officially closed. as the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could commence in the future increases. additionally, the involvement of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our board of directors and as stockholders may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the united states. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; 32 seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. historically, we have satisfied these needs primarily through equity financing from certain of our broker-dealer clients, our acquisition of trading edge, inc., internally generated funds and, most recently, our initial public offering. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. our existing investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and nasdaq rules promulgated in response to the sarbanes-oxley act. the requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may place undue strain on our systems and resources. the securities exchange act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. as a result, management attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. nasdaq rules also require that a majority of our board of directors and all of certain sub-committees of the board of directors consist of 33 independent directors. we cannot assure you that our board of directors will continue to include a majority of independent directors to comply with the requirements of these rules. compliance with changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted, and will continue to result, in the incurrence of additional expenses associated with being a public company. new and changing laws and regulations, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, impose stricter corporate governance requirements and greater disclosure obligations. they have had the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and attention of our management from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities and increasing the risk of personal liability for our board members and executive officers involved in our corporate governance process. our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations has resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and increased professional fees. in addition, it may become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. these laws and regulations may impose obligations that will increase the legal and financial costs required to consummate a business combination and increase the time required to complete a transaction. furthermore, in order to meet the new corporate governance and disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies and procedures to address compliance issues and correct any deficiencies that we may discover. while we believe that the procedures and policies that we have in place are effective to address the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and other regulatory requirements, the expansion of our operations and the growth of our business may require us to modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies. any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully comply with these new laws and regulations. if we fail to prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws and regulations on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. 34 economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2005, we invested in corporate fixed-income securities of $60 million. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform, nor do we act as principal to the bond transactions completed on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2005, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $13.6 million, with an unrealized gain, net of taxes, of $0.1 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. 73, risk factors. item 1. business marketaxess operates one of the leading platforms for the electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of fixed-income securities. through our platform, 689 active institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006) can access the aggregate liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25 broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our platform. our active institutional investor clients include investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. we also provide data and analytical tools that help our clients make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading process by electronically communicating order information between trading counterparties. our revenues are primarily generated from the trading of u.s. and european high-grade corporate bonds. our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. we offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. in addition to u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds and credit default swaps. our dealeraxess trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities with each other on our platform. the majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for trades executed on our platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. we also derive revenues from information and user access fees, license fees, investment income and other income. our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, marketing and advertising and other general and administrative expenses. traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. in recent years, an increasing number of corporate bond trading participants have utilized e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate bonds. while this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. 1 table of contents through our electronic platform, our institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-treasury data, search capabilities and independent credit research) available on our corporate bondticker tm service and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients during the trade process. on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. however, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we are not a party to the actual trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. in june 2006, we introduced our dealeraxess service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact u.s. corporate and emerging markets bond trades on our platform with other broker-dealer clients. our broker-dealer clients can execute these trades in a more efficient manner and at lower transaction costs than in the traditional voice-brokered inter-dealer market. although dealeraxess is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same core technology as our client-to-dealer platform. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, acts as intermediary in these transactions between broker-dealer clients by serving as counterparty to the two broker-dealer clients involved. our client base includes 25 of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading and 689 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006). our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 96% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds and approximately 75% of the underwriting of newly issued european high-grade corporate bonds in 2006. we believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by traditional means including telephone, e-mail and proprietary single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. we believe that these traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented 8.5% of the total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2006 as reported by the national association of securities dealers, inc. ( nasd ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ), which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to-dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. 2 table of contents results for calendar years 2006, 2005 and 2004 our trading volume, commissions and total revenues remained relatively constant from 2004 to 2005. from 2005 to 2006, our trading volume increased by 13.5%, commissions increased by 6.7% and total revenues increased by 6.1%. income before taxes declined in both 2005 and 2006 compared to the prior years as a result of higher expenses. expenses increased between 2005 and 2006 by $7.7 million or 11.5%. incremental stock compensation expense as a result of the implementation of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004) share-based payment ( sfas 123r ), in january of 2006 accounted for $3.2 million of this expense increase. our summary results for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are provided in the following table: year ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 total trading volume (in billions) $ 339.6 $ 299.2 $ 298.1 total commissions (in millions) 71.4 66.9 68.2 total revenues (in millions) 83.3 78.6 75.8 income before taxes (in millions) 8.6 11.6 17.3 for the year ended december 31, 2006, 57.5% of our total volume was in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, 25.8% was in european high-grade corporate bonds and 16.7% was in other, most of which was emerging markets and agency bonds. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of december 31, 2006, there were approximately $26.7 trillion of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $5.4 trillion of u.s. corporate bonds. we are primarily active in six segments of the global fixed-income securities market: u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; european high-grade corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds; crossover and high-yield bonds; agency bonds; and credit default swaps. u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the total amount of u.s. corporate bonds outstanding has grown from $3.0 trillion as of december 31, 1999 to $5.4 trillion as of december 31, 2006. the average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds increased from approximately $17.9 billion in 2002 (the first calendar year for which such data are available) to $22.7 billion in 2006. the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb or better by standard poor or baa3 or better by moody investor service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market, has undergone significant change over the last several years, which has been driven by a number of factors, including: improved price transparency in 2002, the nasd adopted trace reporting, which requires nasd members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to the nasd. since february 2005, the list of trace-eligible bonds has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds. introduction of electronic trading platforms electronic trading platforms, which are in the early stages of adoption, act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. the actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids 3 table of contents or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. as a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade execution than previously possible. introduction of credit derivatives credit derivatives provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding credit default swaps. according to the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. ( isda ), the total notional amount of credit default swaps outstanding grew from approximately $900 billion at december 31, 2001 to approximately $26 trillion at june 30, 2006. growth in the total amount of debt outstanding the total size of the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market has increased significantly since 1998, when approximately $564 billion gross amount of new bonds were issued. by 2006, the amount of gross corporate issuance had grown to $1,059.9 billion, as illustrated in the chart below: european high-grade corporate bond market the european high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. we believe that the european high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. in addition, we believe the following factors are unique to the european high-grade corporate bond market: adoption of the euro the adoption of the euro as the common currency in most european union countries has reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection criterion and elevated the importance of the credit risk of particular issuers. as a result, institutional investors have exhibited a greater interest in investing in a broader range of bonds issued by entities domiciled outside of their home countries. regulatory environment certain european union countries have eased restrictions that required institutional investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. this has provided european institutional investors with increased flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled in other countries within the european union. on november 1, 2007, the markets in financial instruments directive 4 table of contents ( mifid ) comes into effect. mifid is designed to further harmonize the financial markets of the member states of the european union and introduces new pre- and post-trade transparency requirements. common liquidity pool the larger capital pool created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory environment have enabled european corporations to offer larger issues, which has resulted in increases in the liquidity and trading volumes of these issues. this has attracted even more institutional investors, who prefer to invest in highly-liquid markets. emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar- or euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds has recently expanded to include many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential, as well as by a general trend toward positive economic and political reforms and improving economic performance in many emerging markets countries. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. the total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance has grown from $130.9 billion for the year ending december 31, 2003 to approximately $149.1 billion for the year ending december 31, 2006. the nasd began publicly disseminating real-time price information on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond issues in 2005. trades in bonds rated bb and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an average of once or more a day. the disseminated set was expanded on february 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain transactions on a delayed basis. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by the nasd for the year ended december 31, 2006 was $4.8 billion. agency bond market we define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored agency. the offerings of these agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the u.s. government. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the student loan marketing association ( sallie mae ), federal national mortgage association ( fannie mae ) and federal home loan mortgage corporation ( freddie mac ). the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion as of december 31, 2000 to $2.7 trillion as of december 31, 2006. the federal reserve bank of new york reported average daily trading volume in federal agency and government sponsored enterprise securities (excluding mortgage-backed securities) for 2006 of $15.6 billion. 5 table of contents credit default swap market credit default swaps ( cds ) are contracts that transfer an asset risk and return from one party to another without transferring ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. they are often designed to hedge other exposures and can be tied to particular events, such as a default, bankruptcy or ratings downgrade. cds provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit risk. approximately half of the volume traded in cds is index products, which give exposure to a defined basket of underlying credit default swaps. the remainder is traded in single-name cds. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding cds, as illustrated in the chart below: our competitive strengths our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. the benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle: pre-trade gathering real-time and historical pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis; trade single and multiple security trade execution; and post-trade trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail. we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of 25 of the leading global securities broker-dealers and 689 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006). we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the 6 table of contents platform of our large network of institutional investor clients. we believe that if we continue to grow the participation of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, the benefits in liquidity on the platform to both broker-dealers and institutional investors will be amplified, further motivating them to use our platform. the growth of our active institutional investor clients for the past five years has been as follows: our total trading volume has grown over the past five years as indicated below: 7 table of contents our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds grew from 6.4% of total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, in 2004 as reported by nasd trace, which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, to 8.5% in 2006, as shown in the chart below: we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to-dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. execution benefits to clients benefits to institutional investor clients we believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: competitive prices. by enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. for typical marketaxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-treasury responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). as an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $750.00. transparent pricing on a range of securities. the commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily average of more than $136 billion in indicative bids and offers. subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of u.s. and european corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within a time period specified by the investor. improved cost efficiency. we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) 8 table of contents inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. in addition, our corporate bondticker eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. benefits to broker-dealer clients we also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: greater sales efficiency. we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. more efficient inventory management for broker-dealers. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure. benefits to both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients we offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including: greater trading accuracy. our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platform assists our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from information being manually entered into different systems. efficient risk monitoring and compliance. institutional investors and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed income trades. our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information including time, price and spread-to-treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. these data also represent a valuable source of information for our clients compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. other service offerings in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including: information services. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our corporate bondticker provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and marketaxess estimated spread-to-treasuries for publicly disseminated nasd trace-eligible bonds. corporate bondticker combines publicly-available trace data with the prices for trades executed on our u.s. high-grade electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time trace data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. in addition, corporate bondticker provides indicative prices for secondary loans and credit default swaps, through arrangements with certain of our broker-dealer clients, 9 table of contents and independent credit research. our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information gathering process or other electronic services. in november 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. it utilizes extensive trace information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. for example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. the report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the marketaxess trading platform. straight-through processing. straight-through processing ( stp ) refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. our electronic trading platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation. robust, scalable technology platform we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. our management team is comprised of executives with an average of more than 20 years experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. in 2006, credit magazine recognized marketaxess as best multi-dealer corporate bond trading platform in europe. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades; corporate bondticker, our information services product, combining nasd trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools; bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously; the first client-to-dealer trading platform for cds indices, enabling same-day confirmation of new and assigned trades through the depository trust and clearing corporation; and dealeraxess , an innovative dealer-to-dealer electronic trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate and emerging market bonds. 10 table of contents our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platform and broaden our client base in our existing markets we intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the marketaxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. we will seek to make our current product offerings on our european electronic trading platform available to our 460 active u.s. institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006) and to increase the number of active european institutional investor clients (229 firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006) using our u.s. electronic trading platform, in each case subject to regulatory requirements. leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new sectors of the fixed-income securities market we intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities market. due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new client segments we intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to deploy our electronic trading platform into new client segments. for example, we believe that the launch of cds index trading on our platform will enable us to increase volumes from our hedge fund clients, as this client segment is an active user of cds. as another example, in june 2006 we introduced our dealeraxess service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact u.s. corporate and emerging markets bond trades on our platform with other broker-dealer clients. continue to strengthen and expand our trade-related service offerings we plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also plan to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation to settlement). we are continually considering the introduction of new trading techniques. as an example, we have the technology necessary to offer an anonymous trading protocol that could be exported to other markets and sectors of fixed-income securities if and when client demand for such a product arises. expand our data and information services offerings we regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to corporate bondticker in order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. examples of added content include pricing for syndicated loans and credit derivatives, and independent credit research. we intend to enter into distribution agreements with information and data services companies in order to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. in july 2005, we entered into an agreement with interactive data corporation, through its subsidiary, ft interactive data, to promote and market corporate bondticker. we expect this and other distribution partnerships to broaden our presence in the marketplace and increase our brand awareness. we intend to seek out additional market leaders in various segments of the securities industry and leverage their existing customer bases and distribution channels to further our data services market penetration. 11 table of contents we introduced compliance reporting tools for our institutional investor clients in november 2006 that assist them in monitoring best execution requirements for fixed income trades. as the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients. pursue strategic alliances and select acquisitions we plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. marketaxess electronic trading platform current client-to-dealer markets u.s. high-grade corporate bonds our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. institutional investors based in the u.s., as well as institutional investors located in the u.k., germany, belgium, switzerland, sweden, norway, hong kong and singapore, have access to u.s. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. investment-grade debt typically refers to debt rated bbb or better by standard poor and baa3 or better by moody investor service. we use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. our trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market increased from $10.0 billion in 2001 to $195.4 billion in 2006. the majority of trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds is still conducted by telephone. in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 19 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2006 new-issue underwriting volume. the 19 broker-dealers who utilize our u.s. high-grade platform are: abn amro, banc of america securities, barclays plc, bear stearns, bnp paribas, citigroup global markets, credit suisse, deutsche bank securities, ftn financial, goldman sachs, hsbc, jpmorgan, jefferies and company, lehman brothers, merrill lynch, morgan stanley, the royal bank of scotland, ubs and wachovia securities. four hundred sixty active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006) utilize our electronic trading platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. we offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. our electronic trading platform is a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model, which allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. by disclosing the counterparties, the inquiry system on which our trading platform is based combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading platform. this enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the overwhelming majority of the world leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients, representing indicative bids and offers. each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client. institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. in a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to all 19 of our u.s. broker-dealer clients. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. 12 table of contents european high-grade corporate bonds the european high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets country and most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency; bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging market; bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the world bank), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. marketaxess europe limited, our wholly-owned u.k. subsidiary, commenced trading operations in august 2001. marketaxess europe limited received financial services authority ( fsa ) regulatory approval and began to offer european secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in september 2001. in 2003, we added trading in other european high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in pounds sterling and floating rate notes. as on our u.s. electronic trading platform, all trading on our european platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model. we offered the first platform in europe with this capability for corporate bonds. in the european high-grade credit market, 20 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2006 new-issue underwriting volume of european corporate bonds. the 20 broker-dealers who utilize our european platform are: abn amro, banc of america securities, barclays plc, bear stearns, bnp paribas, citigroup global markets, credit suisse, deutsche bank securities, dresdner bank ag, dz bank ag, goldman sachs, hsbc, jpmorgan, lehman brothers, merrill lynch, morgan stanley, rbc capital markets, the royal bank of scotland, sg corporate and investment banking and ubs. the 229 active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our european electronic trading platform between january 2006 and december 2006) that utilize our platform for trading european high-grade corporate bonds are based outside of the u.s. on a typical day, institutional investors on our european corporate bond trading platform have access to 18,000 line items of commingled inventory, representing an aggregate of approximately $90 billion of indicative bids and offers. in a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the european platform. while many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our 2006 trading volume in the european high-grade corporate bond market was $87.6 billion. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the total volume of client-to-dealer trading in the european high-grade corporate bond market and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this trading that takes place on our platform. the majority of trading in european high-grade corporate bonds is currently conducted by telephone. emerging markets bonds we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar- or euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america and eastern europe. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2006 were brazil, mexico, argentina, russia and venezuela. 13 table of contents eighteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to eight of these 18 participating broker-dealer clients. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the total volume of client-to-dealer trading in emerging markets bonds and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this trading that is taking place on our platform. the majority of trading in emerging markets bonds is currently conducted by telephone. crossover and high-yield bonds we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. the total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance has grown from $130.9 billion as of december 31, 2003 to approximately $149.1 billion as of december 31, 2006. eighteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all 18 of the participating broker-dealer clients. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by the nasd for the year ended december 31, 2006 was $4.8 billion. agency bonds we define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored agency. the offerings of these agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the u.s. government. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are sallie mae, fannie mae and freddie mac. the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion as of december 31, 2000 to $2.7 trillion as of december 31, 2006. ten of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade agency bonds. institutional investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all ten of the participating broker-dealer clients. the federal reserve bank of new york reported average daily trading volume in federal agency and government sponsored enterprise securities (excluding mortgage-backed securities) for 2006 of $15.6 billion. credit default swaps we launched cds index trading on our platform in september 2005 and added the capacity to trade lists of single-name cds in november 2006. in addition to the trading features, the index trading platform provides basic stp connectivity to dealers, clients and the depository trust clearing corporation wholly-owned subsidiary, deriv/serv, a full-service provider of automated trade processing solutions in the otc derivatives market. we also subscribe to markit group limited red service, the industry standard for reference entity and reference obligation identifiers in the credit derivatives market. the markit red data will help us achieve straight-through processing for its institutional investor clients from pre-trade through confirmation. fourteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to trade cds indices and nine for cds single-name lists. current dealer-to-dealer markets u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 19 broker-dealers utilize our dealeraxess platform to trade with each other. these dealers include 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2006 new-issue underwriting volume. dealeraxess provides live inter-dealer markets utilizing proprietary cross-matching technology. 14 table of contents although dealeraxess is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same core technology as our client-to-dealer platform. the platform provides a documented record of orders and executed trades with reporting that enables broker-dealer clients to track, analyze and evaluate their inter-dealer trading. straight-through processing is available to reduce manual tasks and lower the number of errors. we estimate that inter-dealer trading represents approximately 25% of the reported nasd trace volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. in 2006, the reported nasd trace volume for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds was $2.6 trillion. the majority of inter-dealer trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds is currently conducted by telephone through voice brokers. trades on dealeraxess are conducted with marketaxess as riskless principal. trades are cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker. emerging markets bonds twelve of our broker-dealer clients use our dealeraxess platform to trade emerging markets bonds with each other. the platform is primarily utilized for transactions in u.s. dollar denominated bonds issued by latin american governments. many of the same features available on dealeraxess for the trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds are available for emerging markets bonds. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the total volume of inter-dealer trading in emerging markets bonds and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this trading that is taking place on our platform. the majority of inter-dealer trading in emerging markets bonds is currently conducted by telephone through voice brokers. key trading functionalities we currently offer both disclosed inquiry trading on our client-to-dealer platform and an anonymous cross matching style of trading on our dealer-to-dealer platform. our dealeraxess dealer-to-dealer trading platform provides anonymous live markets with executable bids and offers posted by participating dealers that are matched using proprietary cross-matching technology. the key trading functionalities on our client-to-dealer trading platform are detailed below. single inquiry trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for european high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform. asap and holding bin trading functionalities we provide both asap ( as soon as possible ) and holding bin trading protocols. in the holding bin trading protocols, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. in the asap trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each broker-dealer price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer. list trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 25 items depending on the market. this facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as mutual funds and hedge funds. institutional investors are able to have 15 table of contents multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure. swap trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield differential of the securities. information and analytical tools corporate bondticker tm corporate bondticker provides real-time nasd trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. the data include trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to-treasuries, for trades disseminated by the nasd trace system. the data also include actual execution prices and spread-to-treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. corporate bondticker allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct trace feeds. in addition, corporate bondticker provides independent credit research, as well as indicative prices for secondary markets in loans and credit default swaps. trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities. all broker-dealers that are nasd member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the nasd then publicly disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of charge on a delayed basis through the nasd website or available immediately for a set fee. corporate bondticker is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. corporate bondticker is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via an easy-to-use browser-based interface. we provide corporate bondticker as an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. we derive revenues from our corporate bondticker service by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. seat license fees from institutional investor clients are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through marketaxess. additional analytical capabilities of our information services offerings aim to provide clients with more information about bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. these statistics measure a security trading activity relative to its amount outstanding and relative to the overall market, respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative liquidity. in addition, we provide pricing measures to help institutional investors better assess the relative value of a corporate bond, providing more consistent relative pricing information for institutional investors, such as offering spread data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the u.s. treasury curve. users are also able to download a variety of marketaxess-compiled trade reports containing a comprehensive review of trading activity. corporate bondticker is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal. in november 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. it utilizes extensive trace information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. for example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a 16 table of contents quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. the report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the marketaxess trading platform. my portfolio institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond portfolio onto our electronic trading platform utilizing the my portfolio trading feature. institutional investors who utilize my portfolio benefit from the ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. users of this feature can also directly access corporate bondticker to obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio. straight-through processing straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. there are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. for example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. external straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process. automation by way of straight-through processing improves the efficiency of the trade cycle. we provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during 2006. in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business between 2005 and 2006, the number of orders uploaded electronically increased from 5,459 to 32,056. the number of online allocations increased from 58,847 to 83,469 and the number of completed trades delivered to institutional investor clients through our post-trade messaging functionality increased from 17.5% to 53.2% of total volume. dealer api we offer application program interface (api) services to our broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services. this allows for straight-through processing, which improves efficiency and reduces errors in processing. 17 table of contents dependence on our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders revenues we have historically earned the majority of our commissions and revenues from nine broker-dealer clients (abn amro, bnp paribas, banc of america, bear stearns, credit suisse, deutsche bank, jpmorgan, lehman brothers and ubs) that were (or whose affiliates were) also our stockholders as of january 1, 2006. affiliates of most of our broker-dealer clients are also among our institutional investor clients. information relating to the percentage of our commissions and the percentage of our revenues generated by these nine broker-dealer clients is provided in the chart below: year ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 percentage of commissions 49.9 % 54.7 % 57.7 % percentage of total revenues 46.0 % 49.7 % 53.6 % as of december 31, 2006, these nine broker-dealer clients owned 10,748,233 shares or 31.6% of our common stock on a diluted basis, assuming conversion of our non-voting common stock and exercise of warrants in exchange for common stock. to the extent that some or all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly, they are likely to be able to influence decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. our broker-dealer clients are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. for more information, see item 1a., risk factors risk factors that may affect future results we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which were also our stockholders as of january 1, 2006, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. board of directors we currently have nine directors, eight of whom are not our employees. of the eight non-employee directors, two are employees of entities that are affiliates of broker-dealer clients and stockholders of marketaxess, although these entities do not have the contractual right to designate members of our board of directors. other businesses our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by means other than our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including telephone conversations, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication, including proprietary, single-dealer systems. we cannot be assured that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. other companies, including some in which certain of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. conflicts of interest information concerning the potential conflicts of interest that may arise as a result of the various roles (broker-dealer client and stockholder) played by certain of our broker-dealer clients, please see item 1a., risk factors risk factors that may affect future results risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. 18 table of contents sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force is organized into four teams: u.s. client sales, european client sales, u.s. dealer relations and european dealer relations. they are responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients. their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish corporate bondticker as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. competition the electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face four main areas of competition: telephone we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. e-mail we compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. e-mail provides an efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence. these include thomson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that has historically focused on government bond trading, and bloomberg, which provides electronic trading functionality. in 2002, thomson tradeweb launched an electronic corporate bond trading platform. in addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer over an electronic medium. we believe that we are currently the only platform primarily focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products between broker-dealers and institutional investors, though others have or may seek to expand their product offerings to compete in this market. additionally, as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services. for instance, our dealeraxess platform competes with services offered by voice brokerage firms including bgc partners l.p., gfi group inc., icap plc and tullet prebon plc. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services and may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform. competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: liquidity provided on the electronic trading platform; magnitude and frequency of price improvement; 19 table of contents facilitating the quality and speed of execution; total transaction costs; technology capabilities, including the ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and range of products and services offered. we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. our trading volume and client acceptance have grown over the past three years and we continue to proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets. our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building application programming interfaces with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services. furthermore, approximately 100 of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the commitment of these institutional investor clients to our services. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. significant consolidation has occurred in our industry and these firms, as well as others that may undertake such consolidation in the future, are potential competitors of ours. technology the design and quality of our technology are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable, client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle multiples of our current trading volume. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in case the main equipment fails. this offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. we have designed our application with an easy-to-use, windows-based interface. through a secure, single sign-on, our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. 20 table of contents intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, web site and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we currently have six patent applications pending, covering certain aspects of our business. the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade secret rights. we have obtained u.s. federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. we have pending registrations for the marketaxess name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. in addition, we have obtained u.s. federal registration for the marks autospotting , bondlink , frontpage , actives , dealeraxess and associated designs. corporate bondticker is a trademark we use, but it has not been registered. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. as a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the u.s. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. regulation of the u.s. securities industry and broker-dealers in the u.s., the sec is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. our u.s. subsidiary, marketaxess corporation, is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer. it is also a member of the nasd, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. in addition, marketaxess corporation is a member of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protection for clients accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer. additionally, marketaxess corporation is registered with certain states and the district of columbia as a broker-dealer. the states and the district of columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective blue sky laws, rules and regulations. regulation of the non-u.s. securities industries and investment service providers the securities industry and financial markets in the u.k., the european union and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. marketaxess europe limited may fall within the scope of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is characterized as providing a regulated investment service. our principal regulator in the u.k. is the fsa. our u.k. subsidiary, marketaxess europe limited, is registered as an alternative trading system ( ats ) with the fsa. the securities industry in the member states of the european union is regulated by agencies in each member state. european union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services which, in general, is valid throughout the european union. as an fsa-approved ats, marketaxess europe limited receives the benefit of this authorization. 21 table of contents in may 2003, we incorporated a canadian subsidiary, marketaxess canada limited. it has applied for registration as an ats under the securities act of ontario and is in the process of seeking approval for membership with the investment dealers association of canada. employees as of december 31, 2006, we had 176 employees, 143 of whom were based in the u.s. and 33 of whom were based in the u.k. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k; our quarterly reports on form 10-q; our current reports on form 8-k; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 140 broadway new york, ny 10005 attn: investor relations in addition, our board of directors has standing audit, compensation and nominating committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors. our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of each committee charter, along with the corporate governance guidelines, are also posted on our website. you may read and copy any document we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the public reference room. the sec maintains an internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the company) file electronically with the sec. the sec internet website is www.sec.gov. we have obtained federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, as well as for the marks auto-spotting , bondlink , actives , frontpage and dealeraxess . other trademarks and service marks appearing in this annual report on form 10-k are the property of their respective holders. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which were also our stockholders as of january 1, 2006, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. although each broker-dealer client is currently a party to an agreement with us, the obligations of each broker-dealer under these agreements are minimal. none of these agreements is exclusive and broker-dealers may terminate such agreements and/or enter into, and in some cases have entered into, similar agreements with our competitors. for example, some of our broker-dealer clients are also clients of thomson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that operates an online corporate bond trading platform. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including telephone conversations, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication. currently, the preponderance of trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading methods. most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may compete with us and our electronic trading platform now and in the future. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading networks. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us, including, either individually or collectively, organizing or investing in a separate company similar to us for the purpose of competing with us or pursuing corporate opportunities that might be attractive to us. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from the nine broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders as of january 1, 2006. for the year ended december 31, 2006, $35.6 million or 49.9% of our commissions, for the year ended december 31, 2005, $36.6 million or 54.7% of our commissions, and for the year ended december 31, 2004, $39.3 million or 57.7% of our commissions, were generated by these nine broker-dealer clients. none of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to their lack of a right to designate a member of our board of directors or the potential reduction in the level of their equity ownership if these entities should sell shares of our common stock, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents several of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. as of january 1, 2006, nine of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that are different from ours and those of our other stockholders. for example, in their capacity as broker-dealer clients, they would presumably favor lower commissions and/or commission caps. furthermore, as stockholders in other consortia that have developed competitive electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of competitive electronic trading networks, they may decide to direct some or all of their electronic trading business to one or more of our competitors. while these actions, if taken, would presumably reduce our revenues and our market capitalization and, therefore, the value of their ownership position in us, there can be no assurance that they will not decide to take such actions for their own strategic reasons. we are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among our broker-dealer clients; however, they may enter into a voting agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner. to the extent that all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly, they will be able to determine decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. as a result, they or their affiliates may be able to: control the composition of our board of directors through their ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect them; control our management and policies; and determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to other stockholders. as a result of these factors, we may be less likely to pursue relationships with strategic partners who are not stockholders of ours, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. furthermore, these factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change in control or sale of marketaxess. we may be limited in our use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2006, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards of $91.6 million, which will begin to expire in 2019. a net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. section 382 of the internal revenue code provides that when a company undergoes an ownership change, that company use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company stock compared to that shareholder lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. for purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. in 2000 and 2001, marketaxess holdings inc. and marketaxess corporation had an ownership change. as a result, net operating loss carryforwards of $39.2 million existing at the date of the ownership change are subject to significant limitations. the issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional ownership change. we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition or other transaction will be undertaken, and we expect to repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with our stock repurchase program. in addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. the extent of the actual future use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. we cannot give any 24 table of contents assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are, and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. we have experienced losses and may incur losses in the future. our losses were $16.8 million from the period of inception through december 31, 2000, $65.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2001 and $36.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. for the year ended december 31, 2003, we reported net income of $4.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2004, we reported net income of $57.6 million, which included $46.1 million in income which was recognized upon our reassessment of the likelihood of realization of a portion of our deferred tax assets, for the year ended december 31, 2005, we reported net income of $8.1 million and for the year ended december 31, 2006, we reported net income of $5.4 million we cannot predict whether we will be able to sustain profitability and we may incur losses in future periods. if we are not able to sustain profitability, our stock price may decline. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor our historical growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the use of our electronic trading platform is relatively new. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our 25 table of contents electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive a majority of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. the percentage of our commissions from such trading remained relatively constant for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. our plans to pursue other opportunities for revenue growth are at an early stage, and we cannot assure you that our plans will be successful or that we will actually proceed with them as described. because we have a limited operating history, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. marketaxess was formed in april 2000 and pilot trading on our electronic trading platform began in october 2000, with the commercial launch of the platform in january 2001. as a result, we have only a limited operating history from which you can evaluate our business and our prospects. we will encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform could harm our business and profitability. we have experienced decreases in overall trading volume in certain periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers may be less likely to post prices electronically. 26 table of contents a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. on june 1, 2005, we introduced a new fee plan primarily for secondary market transactions in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds executed on our electronic trading platform. most of our u.s. high-grade broker-dealer clients signed new two-year agreements in 2005. these agreements are scheduled for renewal at various times between june 2007 and december 2007. in addition, we anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee plans for the other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such plans. furthermore, resistance to new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to transactions executed between our broker-dealer clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back trades. in june 2006, we began executing riskless principal transactions between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing trades on the dealeraxess platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. we base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealers and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; 27 table of contents fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or 28 table of contents insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. 30 table of contents we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause broker-dealers and clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have filed six patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes from competition. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. 31 table of contents defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to enter into additional marketing and strategic alliances or if our current strategic alliances are not successful, we may not maintain the current level of trading or generate increased trading on our trading platform. from time to time, we may enter into strategic alliances that will enable us to enter new markets, provide products or services that we do not currently offer or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. entering into joint ventures and alliances entails risks, including: difficulties in developing and expanding the business of newly-formed joint ventures; exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest; and potential conflicts with or among our joint venture or alliance partners. we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into new strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. these arrangements, if entered into, may not generate the expected number of new clients or increased trading volume we are seeking. unsuccessful joint ventures or alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options and restricted stock. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. 33 table of contents because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has grown more competitive in recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth. domestic and international labor markets have tightened in concert with the continuing recovery in general economic conditions. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the implementation of sfas 123r relating to the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. termination of employees may result in additional costs. we are currently involved in arbitration claims filed against us by two former employees. we believe that both cases are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend them. however, an adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. regardless of the outcome of these claims, we may incur significant expense and management time dealing with such claims. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and the nasd. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. 34 table of contents we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in the nasd and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as an alternative trading system, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. in november 2000, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice in connection with the antitrust division investigation of electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. after compliance with all information requests, we received notice from the u.s. department of justice in 2004 that the investigation was officially closed. as the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could commence in the future increases. additionally, the involvement of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our board of directors and as stockholders may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the united states. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; 35 table of contents difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. historically, we have satisfied these needs primarily through equity financing from certain of our broker-dealer clients, our acquisition of trading edge, inc., internally generated funds and, most recently, our initial public offering. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. our existing investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and nasdaq rules promulgated in response to the sarbanes-oxley act. the requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may place undue strain on our systems and resources. the securities exchange act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. in order to maintain and 36 table of contents improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. as a result, management attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. nasdaq rules also require that a majority of our board of directors and all of certain sub-committees of the board of directors consist of independent directors. we cannot assure you that our board of directors will continue to include a majority of independent directors to comply with the requirements of these rules. compliance with changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted, and will continue to result, in the incurrence of additional expenses associated with being a public company. new and changing laws and regulations, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, impose stricter corporate governance requirements and greater disclosure obligations. they have had the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and attention of our management from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities and increasing the risk of personal liability for our board members and executive officers involved in our corporate governance process. our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations has resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and increased professional fees. in addition, it may become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. these laws and regulations may impose obligations that will increase the legal and financial costs required to consummate a business combination and increase the time required to complete a transaction. furthermore, in order to meet the new corporate governance and disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies and procedures to address compliance issues and correct any deficiencies that we may discover. while we believe that the procedures and policies that we have in place are effective to address the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and other regulatory requirements, the expansion of our operations and the growth of our business may require us to modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies. any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully comply with these new laws and regulations. if we fail to prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws and regulations on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 table of contents risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2006, we had a $49.0 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from theses positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2006, we invested in primarily federal agency issues and municipal securities of $49.0 million. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2006, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $17.4 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. 71 table of contents credit risk in june 2006, we began executing riskless principal transactions between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing trades on the dealeraxess platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. 72 table of contents, risk factors. item 1. business marketaxess operates one of the leading platforms for the electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of fixed-income securities. through our platform, 674 active institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007) can access the aggregate liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 30 broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our platform. our active institutional investor clients include investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. we provide data and analytical tools that help our clients make trading decisions, we provide connectivity solutions that facilitate the trading process by electronically communicating order information between trading counterparties and we provide our clients with ancillary technology services. our revenues are primarily generated from the trading of u.s. and european high-grade corporate bonds. our multi-dealer request for quote ( rfq ) trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. we offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. in addition to u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds and credit default swaps ( cds ). our dealeraxess anonymous cross-matching trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities and credit default swaps with each other on our platform. the majority of our revenues are derived from monthly distribution fees and commissions for trades executed on our platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. we also derive revenues from information and user access fees, license fees, investment income and other income, which includes fees earned from our technology services business. our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and general and administrative expenses. traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. in recent years, an increasing number of corporate bond trading participants have utilized e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate bonds. while this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still hindered by 1 table of contents limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. through our disclosed multi-dealer rfq platform, our institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) available on our corporate bondticker tm service and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 22 of our broker-dealer clients during the trade process. on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. however, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we are not a party to the actual trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. our dealeraxess anonymous cross-matching service, which we introduced in june 2006, allows our broker-dealer clients to transact u.s. corporate and emerging markets bond and cds trades on our platform with other broker-dealer clients. our broker-dealer clients can execute these trades in a more efficient manner and at lower transaction costs than in the traditional voice-brokered inter-dealer market. although dealeraxess is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same core technology as our client-to-dealer platform. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, acts as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in bond transactions between broker-dealer clients by serving as counterparty to the two broker-dealer clients involved. cds transactions are conducted on the dealeraxess platform on a name give-up basis and are directly settled between the two trading counterparties. our client base includes 30 of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading and 674 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007). our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 98% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds and approximately 82% of the underwriting of newly issued european high-grade corporate bonds in 2007. we believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by traditional means including telephone, e-mail and proprietary single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. we believe that these traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 9.4% of the total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2007 as reported by the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ), which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to-dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. 2 table of contents company history marketaxess was formed in april 2000, and pilot trading on our fully disclosed multi-dealer platform began in october 2000. we launched trading on our electronic platform in january 2001 with eight broker-dealer clients. in march 2001, we acquired trading edge, inc. ( trading edge ), the operator of an anonymous trading platform for u.s. corporate bonds, convertible bonds, municipal bonds and emerging markets bonds. the technology platform developed by trading edge and obtained by us through the acquisition is now the core of our product offerings. in august 2001, one of our u.k. subsidiaries, marketaxess europe limited, began operations with secondary electronic trading in u.s. dollar-denominated and euro-denominated corporate bonds. we launched our information service, corporate bondticker tm in july 2002. corporate bondticker tm combines finra trace data with marketaxess data and analytical tools to provide trading professionals, research firms, rating and news agencies, and other market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond information. on november 4, 2004, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. in november 2007, we formed a new subsidiary, marketaxess technologies inc., which acquired certain assets and assumed certain obligations of trade west systems, llc ( tws ). tws is a utah-based financial software and technology services provider focused on providing gateway adapters for connecting order management systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of december 31, 2007, there were approximately $29.2 trillion of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $5.7 trillion of u.s. corporate bonds. we are primarily active in six segments of the credit markets within the global fixed-income securities market: u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; european high-grade corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds; crossover and high-yield bonds; agency bonds; and cds. the second half of 2007 was a period of significant turmoil in the u.s. and european credit markets, especially in short-term funding and floating rate note instruments. a widespread retrenchment in the credit markets resulted in increased credit spreads and significantly higher credit spread volatility across a wide range of asset classes. the average daily trading volume of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds for the second half of 2007 decreased by 14% compared to the second half of 2006. we believe the resultant lack of liquidity in the credit markets led institutional investors to reduce overall bond trading activity and conduct a higher percentage of their trades directly with their broker-dealer counterparties, resulting in lower volumes on our platform. we also believe that a stabilization in credit market conditions, at higher overall levels of credit spreads, is likely to favorably impact the volume of trades conducted over our platform. u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the total amount of u.s. corporate bonds outstanding has grown from $3.0 trillion as of december 31, 1999 to $5.7 trillion as of december 31, 2007. the average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds (investment grade and high yield) has decreased from approximately $17.9 billion in 2002 (the first calendar year for which such data are available) to $13.2 billion in 2007. we believe that this decline in average daily trading volumes is due to cyclical credit market conditions and the growth of debt instruments going into structured product instruments. the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard poor or baa3 or better by moody investor service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). 3 table of contents the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market, has undergone significant change over the last several years, which has been driven by a number of factors, including: improved price transparency in 2002, finra adopted trace reporting, which requires finra members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to the finra. since february 2005, the list of trace-eligible bonds has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds. introduction of electronic trading platforms electronic trading platforms, which are in the early stages of adoption, act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. the actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. as a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade execution than previously possible. introduction of credit derivatives credit derivatives provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding cds. according to the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. ( isda ), the total notional amount of cds outstanding grew from approximately $900 billion at december 31, 2001 to approximately $46 trillion at june 30, 2007. growth in the total amount of debt outstanding the total size of the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market has increased significantly since 1998, when approximately $564 billion gross amount of new bonds were issued. by 2007, the amount of gross corporate issuance had grown to $1,114.4 billion, as illustrated in the chart below: 4 table of contents european high-grade corporate bond market the european high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency; bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging market; bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the world bank), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. we believe that the european high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. in addition, we believe the following factors are unique to the european high-grade corporate bond market: adoption of the euro the adoption of the euro as the common currency in most european union countries has reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection criterion and elevated the importance of the credit risk of particular issuers. as a result, institutional investors have exhibited a greater interest in investing in a broader range of bonds issued by entities domiciled outside of their home countries. regulatory environment certain european union countries have eased restrictions that required institutional investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. this has provided european institutional investors with increased flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled in other countries within the european union. on november 1, 2007, the markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ) came into effect. mifid is designed to further harmonize the financial markets of the member states of the european union and introduces new pre- and post-trade transparency requirements. common liquidity pool the larger capital pool created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory environment have enabled european corporations to offer larger issues, which has resulted in increases in the liquidity and trading volumes of these issues. this has attracted even more institutional investors, who prefer to invest in highly-liquid markets. emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar, euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds has recently expanded to include many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential, as well as by a general trend toward positive economic and political reforms and improving economic performance in many emerging markets countries. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. the total amount of high-yield corporate bonds 5 table of contents yearly issuance has grown from $130.9 billion for the year ended december 31, 2003 to approximately $136.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2007. finra began publicly disseminating real-time price information on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond issues in 2005. trades in bonds rated bb and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an average of once or more a day. the disseminated set was expanded on february 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain transactions on a delayed basis. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by finra for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $4.2 billion. agency bond market we define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored agency. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the student loan marketing association ( sallie mae ), federal national mortgage association ( fannie mae ) and federal home loan mortgage corporation ( freddie mac ). the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion as of december 31, 2000 to $2.9 trillion as of december 31, 2007. the federal reserve bank of new york reported average daily trading volume in federal agency and government sponsored enterprise securities (excluding mortgage-backed securities) for 2007 of $17.2 billion. credit default swap market credit default swaps are contracts on an underlying asset that transfer risk and return from one party to another without transferring ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. they are often designed to hedge other exposures and can be tied to particular events, such as a default, bankruptcy or ratings downgrade. cds provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit risk. approximately half of the volume traded in cds is index products, which give exposure to a defined basket of underlying cds. the remainder is traded in single-name cds. the appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount of outstanding cds, as illustrated in the chart below: 6 table of contents our competitive strengths our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. the benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle: pre-trade gathering real-time and historical pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis; trade single and multiple security trade execution; and post-trade trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail. we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of 30 of the leading global securities broker-dealers and 674 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007). we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients. we believe that if we continue to grow the participation of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, the benefits in liquidity on the platform to both broker-dealers and institutional investors will be amplified, further motivating them to use our platform. the number of our active institutional investor clients for the past five years has been as follows: 7 table of contents our total trading volume has grown over the past five years as indicated below: our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds grew from approximately 6.4% of total u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, in 2004 as reported by finra trace, which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, to approximately 9.4% in 2007, as shown in the chart below: we have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either the total volume of client-to-dealer trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our platform. 8 table of contents execution benefits to clients benefits to institutional investor clients we believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: competitive prices. by enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. for typical marketaxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-treasury responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). as an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $750.00. transparent pricing on a range of securities. the commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily average of more than $120 billion in indicative bids and offers. subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of u.s. and european corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within a time period specified by the investor. improved cost efficiency. we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. in addition, our corporate bondticker tm eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. benefits to broker-dealer clients we also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: greater sales efficiency. we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. more efficient inventory management. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure. benefits to both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients we offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including: greater trading accuracy. our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platform assists our 9 table of contents institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from information being manually entered into different systems. efficient risk monitoring and compliance. institutional investors and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information including time, price and spread-to-treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. these data represent a valuable source of information for our clients compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. other service offerings in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including: information services. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our corporate bondticker tm provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and marketaxess estimated spread-to-treasuries for publicly disseminated finra trace-eligible bonds. corporate bondticker tm combines publicly-available trace data with the prices for trades executed on our u.s. high-grade electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time trace data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. corporate bondticker tm provides end-of-day cds pricing data combined with cds analytics and screening tools that incorporate cash bond and equity market data. in addition, corporate bondticker tm provides indicative prices for secondary loans, through arrangements with certain of our broker-dealer clients, and independent third-party credit research. our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information gathering process or other electronic services. in november 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. it utilizes extensive trace information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. for example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. the report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the marketaxess trading platform. straight-through processing. straight-through processing ( stp ) refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. our electronic trading platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation. robust, scalable technology platform we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. 10 table of contents proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. our management team is comprised of executives with an average of more than 20 years experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. in 2007, credit magazine recognized marketaxess as best multi-dealer credit default swaps trading platform and best multi-dealer corporate bond trading platform in both the u.s. and europe. the year 2007 was the first year that the award for best multi-dealer credit default swaps trading platform was included in the credit magazine awards, and the third consecutive year that marketaxess has been recognized as the best multi-dealer corporate bond trading platform. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades; corporate bondticker tm , our information services product, combining finra trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools; bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously; the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for cds indices; and dealeraxess , an innovative dealer-to-dealer electronic trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging market bonds and cds. our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platform and broaden our client base in our existing markets we intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the marketaxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. we will seek to make our current product offerings on our european electronic trading platform available to our 465 active u.s. institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007) and to increase the number of active european institutional investor clients (209 firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007) using our u.s. electronic trading platform, in each case subject to regulatory requirements. leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new sectors of the fixed-income securities market we intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical services and products. due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. 11 table of contents leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new client segments we intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to deploy our electronic trading platform into new client segments. for example, we believe that cds index trading on our platform will enable us to increase volumes from our hedge fund clients, as this client segment is an active user of cds. as another example, in june 2006 we introduced our dealeraxess service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact u.s. corporate bond, emerging markets bond and cds trades on our platform with other broker-dealer clients. continue to strengthen and expand our trade-related service offerings we plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also plan to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation to settlement). we are continually considering the introduction of new trading techniques. as an example, we have the technology necessary to offer an anonymous trading protocol that could be exported to other markets and sectors of fixed-income securities if and when client demand for such a product arises. expand our data and information services offerings we regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to corporate bondticker tm in order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. examples of added content include pricing for credit derivatives and syndicated loans, and independent third-party credit research. we intend to continue to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. in november 2006, we introduced compliance reporting tools for our institutional investor clients that assist them in monitoring best execution requirements for fixed-income trades. as the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients. pursue strategic alliances and select acquisitions we plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. for example, in november 2007, we acquired substantially all the assets of tws, a financial software and technology services provider focused on providing gateway adapters for connecting order management systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues. marketaxess electronic trading platform current client-to-dealer markets u.s. high-grade corporate bonds our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. both domestic and foreign institutional investors have access to u.s. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. we use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. our trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market increased from $10.0 billion in 2001 to $200.3 billion in 2007. the majority of trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds is still conducted by telephone. in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 22 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 18 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2007 investment grade new-issue underwriting volume. we offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. our electronic trading platform is a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model, which allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. by disclosing the counterparties, the inquiry system on which our trading platform is based combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer 12 table of contents relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading platform. this enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the overwhelming majority of the world leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients, representing indicative bids and offers. each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client. institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. european high-grade corporate bonds marketaxess europe limited, our wholly-owned u.k. subsidiary, commenced trading operations in august 2001. marketaxess europe limited received financial services authority ( fsa ) regulatory approval and began to offer european secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in september 2001. in 2003, we added trading in other european high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in pounds sterling and floating rate notes. as on our u.s. electronic trading platform, all trading on our european platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model. we offered the first platform in europe with this capability for corporate bonds. in the european high-grade credit market, 19 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 18 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2007 european investment grade new-issue underwriting volume. on a typical day, institutional investors on our european corporate bond trading platform have access to 18,000 line items of commingled inventory, representing an aggregate of approximately $90 billion of indicative bids and offers. in a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the european platform. while many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. to transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. while, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our 2007 trading volume in the european high-grade corporate bond market was $77.4 billion. emerging markets bonds twenty of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. 253 active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading platform between january 2007 and december 2007) utilize our electronic trading platform to trade emerging markets bonds. these institutional investor clients are located in both the u.s. and europe. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2007 were brazil, mexico, argentina, russia and venezuela. in december 2007, we introduced local markets emerging market debt trading, which allows our institutional investor clients to transact euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations in argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico and peru. crossover and high-yield bonds nineteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. 13 table of contents agency bonds fifteen of our u.s. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade agency bonds. trading in agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. credit default swaps we launched cds index trading on our platform in september 2005 and added the capacity to trade lists of single-name cds in november 2006. in addition to the trading features, the index trading platform also offers stp connectivity for dealers and institutional investor clients. four of our u.s. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to trade cds investment grade indices and three for cds investment grade single-name lists. current dealer-to-dealer markets u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 19 broker-dealers utilize our dealeraxess platform to trade with each other. these dealers include 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2007 investment grade new-issue underwriting volume. dealeraxess provides live inter-dealer markets utilizing proprietary cross-matching technology. although dealeraxess is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same core technology as our client-to-dealer platform. the platform provides a documented record of orders and executed trades with reporting that enables broker-dealer clients to track, analyze and evaluate their inter-dealer trading. straight-through processing is available to reduce manual tasks and lower the number of errors. we estimate that inter-dealer trading represents approximately 25% of the reported finra trace volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. the majority of inter-dealer trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds is currently conducted by telephone through voice brokers. bond trades on dealeraxess are conducted with marketaxess as riskless principal. trades are cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker. emerging markets bonds thirteen of our broker-dealer clients use our dealeraxess platform to trade emerging markets bonds with each other. the platform is primarily utilized for transactions in u.s dollar denominated bonds issued by latin american governments. many of the same features available on dealeraxess for the trading of u.s high-grade corporate bonds are available for emerging markets bonds. credit default swaps we launched cds single-name trading for u.s. high-grade and index and single-name trading for emerging markets on our platform in may 2007. twelve of our u.s. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to trade u.s. high-grade single name cds and twelve of our u.s. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to trade emerging markets index and single-name cds. cds transactions are conducted on the dealeraxess platform on a name give-up basis and are directly settled between the two trading counterparties. key trading functionalities we currently offer both disclosed inquiry trading on our client-to-dealer platform and an anonymous cross-matching style of trading on our dealer-to-dealer platform. our dealeraxess dealer-to-dealer trading platform provides anonymous live markets with executable bids and offers posted by participating dealers that are matched using proprietary cross-matching technology. the key trading functionalities on our client-to-dealer trading platform are detailed below. single inquiry trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for european high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform. 14 table of contents asap and holding bin trading functionalities we provide both asap ( as soon as possible ) and holding bin trading protocols. in the holding bin trading protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. in the asap trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each broker-dealer price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer. list trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 40 items depending on the market. this facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure. swap trading functionality we currently offer institutional investors the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield differential of the securities. information and analytical tools corporate bondticker tm corporate bondticker tm provides real-time finra trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. the data include trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to-treasuries, for trades disseminated by the finra trace system. the data also include actual execution prices and spread-to-treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. corporate bondticker tm allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct trace feeds. in addition, corporate bondticker tm provides independent third-party credit research as well as indicative prices for secondary markets in loans and cds. trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities. all broker-dealers that are finra member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). finra then publicly disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of charge on a delayed basis through the finra website or available immediately for a set fee. corporate bondticker tm is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. corporate bondticker tm is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via an easy-to-use browser-based interface. we provide corporate bondticker tm as an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. we derive revenues from our corporate bondticker tm service by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. seat license fees from institutional investor clients are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through marketaxess. 15 table of contents additional analytical capabilities of our information services offerings aim to provide clients with more information regarding bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. these statistics measure a security trading activity relative to its amount outstanding and relative to the overall market, respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative liquidity. in addition, we provide pricing measures to help institutional investors better assess the relative value of a corporate bond, providing more consistent relative pricing information for institutional investors, such as offering spread data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the u.s. treasury curve. users are also able to download a variety of marketaxess-compiled trade reports containing a comprehensive review of trading activity. corporate bondticker tm is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal. in november 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. it utilizes extensive trace information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. for example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. the report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the marketaxess trading platform. in november 2007, we added end-of-day cds pricing data to corporate bondticker tm that is provided by credit market analysis ltd. end-of-day screening tools combine the cds data with market data from cash bonds and equities to provide relative value analysis to our clients. my portfolio institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond portfolio to our electronic trading platform utilizing the my portfolio trading feature. institutional investors who utilize my portfolio benefit from the ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. users of this feature can also directly access corporate bondticker tm to obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio. straight-through processing straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. there are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. for example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. external straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process. automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade cycle. we provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during 2007. in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business between 2005 and 2007, the number of orders uploaded electronically increased from 5,459 to 72,517. the number of online allocations increased from 58,847 to 94,187 and the number of completed trades delivered to institutional investor clients through our post-trade messaging functionality increased from 18% to 56% of total volume between 2005 and 2007. 16 table of contents dealer api we offer application programming interface ( api ) services to our broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services. this allows for straight-through processing, which improves efficiency and reduces errors in processing. technology services in 2007, we began providing technology consulting services. fees for such services are charged based upon the complexity and extent of the services provided. in november 2007, we formed a new subsidiary company, marketaxess technologies inc., which acquired substantially all the assets of tws, a financial software and technology services provider focused on providing gateway adapters for connecting order management systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues. dependence on our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders revenues we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions and overall revenues from broker-dealer clients that are (or whose affiliates are) also our stockholders ( stockholder broker-dealer clients ). for 2007, a total of seven dealers, and for 2006 and 2005, a total of nine dealers, were considered to be stockholder broker-dealer clients. affiliates of most of our broker-dealer clients are also among our institutional investor clients. information relating to the percentage of our commissions and total revenues generated by the stockholder broker-dealer clients is provided in the chart below: year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 percentage of commissions 39.2 % 49.9 % 54.7 % percentage of total revenues 37.1 % 46.0 % 49.7 % number of stockholder broker-dealer clients 7 9 9 as of january 1, 2007, we believe these seven broker-dealer clients owned 12,979,397 shares or 37.4% of our common stock on a diluted basis, assuming conversion of our non-voting common stock and exercise of warrants into common stock. to the extent that some or all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly, they are likely to be able to influence decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. our broker-dealer clients are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. for more information, see item 1a., risk factors risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, seven of which were also our stockholders as of january 1, 2007, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. board of directors we currently have 11 directors, nine of whom are not our employees. of the nine non-employee directors, two are employees of entities that are affiliates of broker-dealer clients and stockholders of marketaxess, although these entities do not have the contractual right to designate members of our board of directors. other businesses our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by means other than our electronic trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including the telephone, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication, including proprietary, single-dealer systems. 17 table of contents we cannot be assured that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. other companies, including some in which certain of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. conflicts of interest for information concerning the potential conflicts of interest that may arise as a result of the various roles (broker-dealer client and stockholder) played by certain of our broker-dealer clients, please see item 1a., risk factors risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients. their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish corporate bondticker tm as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. competition the electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face four main areas of competition: telephone we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. e-mail we compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. e-mail provides an efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence. these include: thomson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that has historically focused on government bond trading; bloomberg, which provides electronic trading functionality; and the new york stock exchange, which launched a retail corporate bond trading platform in april 2007. in 2002, thomson tradeweb launched an electronic corporate bond trading platform. in addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer over an electronic medium. we believe that we are currently the only platform primarily focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products between broker-dealers and institutional investors, though others have or may seek to expand their product offerings to compete in this market. additionally, as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services. for instance, our dealeraxess platform competes with services offered by inter-dealer brokerage firms including bgc partners l.p., creditex, gfi group inc., icap plc and tullet prebon plc. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. some of these 18 table of contents entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform. competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform; liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers; magnitude and frequency of price improvement; facilitating the quality and speed of execution; compliance benefits; total transaction costs; technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and range of products and services offered. we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. our trading volume has grown over the past five years and we continue to proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets. our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building api with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services. furthermore, approximately 150 of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor clients on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry. technology the design and quality of our technology are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in case the main equipment fails. this offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed t-1 communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. 19 table of contents we have designed our application with an easy-to-use, windows-based interface. through a secure, single sign-on, our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform. clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, web site and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we currently have six patent applications pending, covering certain aspects of our business. the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade secret rights. we have obtained u.s. federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. we have pending registrations for the marketaxess name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. in addition, we have obtained u.s. federal registration for the marks autospotting , bondlink , frontpage , actives , dealeraxess and associated designs. corporate bondticker tm is a trademark we use, but it has not been registered. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. as a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the u.s. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. regulation of the u.s. securities industry and broker-dealers in the u.s., the sec is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. our u.s. subsidiary, marketaxess corporation, is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer. it is also a member of finra, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. in addition, marketaxess corporation is a member of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protection for clients accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer. additionally, marketaxess corporation is registered with certain states and the district of columbia as a broker-dealer. the states and the district of columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective blue sky laws, rules and regulations. regulation of the non-u.s. securities industries and investment service providers the securities industry and financial markets in the u.k., the european union and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. marketaxess europe limited may fall within the scope of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is characterized as providing a regulated investment service. 20 table of contents our principal regulator in the u.k. is the fsa. our subsidiary, marketaxess europe limited, is registered as a multilateral trading facility ( mtf ) with the fsa. the securities industry in the member states of the european union is regulated by agencies in each member state. european union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services, which, in general, is valid throughout the european union. as an fsa-approved mtf, marketaxess europe limited receives the benefit of this authorization. in may 2003, we incorporated a canadian subsidiary, marketaxess canada limited. it has applied for registration as an alternative trading system under the securities act of ontario and is in the process of seeking approval for membership with the investment dealers association of canada. employees as of december 31, 2007, we had 182 employees, 149 of whom were based in the u.s. and 33 of whom were based in the u.k. none of our employees is represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k; our quarterly reports on form 10-q; our current reports on form 8-k; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 140 broadway new york, ny 10005 attn: investor relations our board of directors has standing audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors. our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of each committee charter, along with the corporate governance guidelines, are also posted on our website. you may read and copy any document we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the public reference room. the sec maintains an internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the company) file electronically with the sec. the sec internet website is www.sec.gov. we have obtained federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, as well as for the marks auto-spotting , bondlink , actives , frontpage and dealeraxess . other trademarks and service marks appearing in this annual report on form 10-k are the property of their respective holders. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to the potential conflicts of interest with our broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, seven of which were also our stockholders as of january 1, 2007, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. although each broker-dealer client is currently a party to an agreement with us, the obligations of each broker-dealer under these agreements are minimal. none of these agreements is exclusive and broker-dealers may terminate such agreements and/or enter into, and in some cases have entered into, similar agreements with our competitors. for example, some of our broker-dealer clients are also clients of thomson tradeweb, a multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform that operates an online corporate bond trading platform. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their clients through traditional bond trading methods, including telephone conversations, e-mail messaging and other electronic means of communication. currently, the preponderance of trading of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading methods. most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may compete with us and our electronic trading platform now and in the future. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading networks. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us, including, either individually or collectively, organizing or investing in a separate company similar to us for the purpose of competing with us or pursuing corporate opportunities that might be attractive to us. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders. for the year ended december 31, 2007, $31.4 million or 39.2% of our commissions, for the year ended december 31, 2006, $35.6 million or 49.9% of our commissions and for the year ended december 31, 2005, $36.6 million or 54.7% of our commissions were generated by these stockholder broker-dealer clients. none of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to the reduction in the level of their equity ownership may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents several of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. as of january 1, 2007, seven of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. these broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that may be different from ours and those of our other stockholders. for example, in their capacity as broker-dealer clients, they would presumably favor lower commissions and/or commission caps. furthermore, as stockholders in other consortia that have developed competitive electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to explore the development of competitive electronic trading networks, they may decide to direct some or all of their electronic trading business to one or more of our competitors. while these actions, if taken, would presumably reduce our revenues and our market capitalization and, therefore, the value of their ownership position in us, there can be no assurance that they will not decide to take such actions for their own strategic reasons. we are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among our broker-dealer clients; however, they may enter into a voting agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner. to the extent that all of these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly, they will be able to determine decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. as a result, they or their affiliates may be able to: control the composition of our board of directors through their ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect them; control our management and policies; and determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to other stockholders. as a result of these factors, we may be less likely to pursue relationships with strategic partners who are not stockholders of ours, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. furthermore, these factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change in control or sale of marketaxess. we may be limited in our use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2007, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards of $100.8 million that will begin to expire in 2019. a net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. section 382 of the internal revenue code provides that when a company undergoes an ownership change , that company use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company stock as compared to that shareholder lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. for purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. in 2000 and 2001, marketaxess holdings inc. and marketaxess corporation had an ownership change. net operating loss carryforwards of $39.2 million existed as of the date of ownership change. however, only $6.8 million are deemed utilizable and recognized in the net operating loss carryforward figure. in 2007, marketaxess holdings inc. experienced an ownership change. we do not believe that this ownership change significantly impacts our ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards. the issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional ownership change. for, example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with a stock repurchase program, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be undertaken. in addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. the extent of the actual future use of our u.s. net operating loss 23 table of contents carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. we cannot give any assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor our historical growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the use of our electronic trading platform is relatively new. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive a majority of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. the percentage of our commissions from such trading remained relatively constant for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. 24 table of contents our plans to pursue other opportunities for revenue growth are at an early stage, and we cannot assure you that our plans will be successful or that we will actually proceed with them as described. because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we expect to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform could harm our business and profitability. we have experienced decreases in overall trading volume in certain periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers may be less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. on june 1, 2005, we introduced a new fee plan primarily for secondary market transactions in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds executed on our electronic trading platform. on june 1, 2007, we introduced a new fee plan for european high-grade corporate bonds for the majority of our european dealers. the european dealers signed new one-year agreements. in addition, we anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee plans for the other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. 25 table of contents we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. furthermore, resistance to the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to transactions executed between our broker-dealer clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades. in june 2006, we began executing riskless principal bond transactions between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing bond trades on the dealeraxess platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. we base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. 26 table of contents we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. 27 table of contents we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business 28 table of contents risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have filed six patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes from competition. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our 30 table of contents business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be 31 table of contents required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has grown more competitive in recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. termination of employees may result in additional costs we are currently involved in arbitration claims filed by two former employees. we believe that both cases are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend them. however, an adverse settlement or judgment related to those or similar types of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. regardless of the outcome of these claims, we may incur significant expense and management time dealing with such claims. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. 32 table of contents most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. in november 2000, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice in connection with the antitrust division investigation of electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. after compliance with all information requests, we received notice from the u.s. department of justice in 2004 that the investigation had been officially closed. as the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could commence in the future increases. additionally, the involvement of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our board of directors and as stockholders may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 table of contents we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the united states. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. historically, we have satisfied these needs primarily through equity financing from certain of our broker-dealer clients, our acquisition of trading edge, inc., internally generated funds and our initial public offering. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. our existing investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and nasdaq rules promulgated in response to the sarbanes-oxley act. the requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may place undue strain on our systems and resources. the securities exchange act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. as a result, management attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. nasdaq rules also require that a majority of our board of directors and all of certain sub-committees of the board of directors consist of independent directors. we cannot assure you that our board of directors will continue to include a majority of independent directors to comply with the requirements of these rules. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; 35 table of contents concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2007, we had a $51.6 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from theses positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $124.3 million and was primarily invested in money market instruments, federal agency issues and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. 65 table of contents derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2007, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $21.8 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk in june 2006, we began executing riskless principal transactions between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing bond trades on the dealeraxess platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. cds transactions are conducted on the dealeraxess platform on a name give-up basis and directly settled between the two trading counterparties. 66 table of contentsrisk factors. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any potential growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately half of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. the percentage of our commissions from such trading declined from 57.3% in 2006 to 50.0% in 2008. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. 22 table of contents because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we expect to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. further decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would further harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume over the past 18 months, and may continue to experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during recent periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants decreased dramatically as institutional investors sought to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a further decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. we anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. furthermore, resistance to the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients or a reduction in the number of dealers participating on our platform could have an adverse impact on our distribution fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades. in june 2006, we began executing riskless principal bond transactions between our broker-dealer clients on the dealeraxess platform, and during 2008 we extended our riskless principal role to include the execution of certain bond transactions between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we (through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation) act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform, whether on the dealeraxess platform or otherwise. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, three of which were also our stockholders as of january 1, 2008, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks which compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders. for the year ended december 31, 2008, $12.5 million or 17.0% of our commissions, for the year ended december 31, 2007, $31.4 million or 39.2% of our commissions, and for the year ended december 31, 2006, $35.6 million or 49.9% of our commissions, were generated by these stockholder broker-dealer clients. none of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to the reduction in the level of their equity ownership may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. due to the continuing global credit crisis, the unpredictability of our industry and our evolving business model, we have and may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. we base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, 25 table of contents which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. 26 table of contents we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. 27 table of contents in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical 28 table of contents measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have filed six patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes from competition. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges as was the case in 2008 with the write-down of certain tws-related intangible assets. we may be limited in our use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2008, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $103.3 million that will begin to expire in 2019. a net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. section 382 of the internal revenue code provides that when a company undergoes an ownership change, that company use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company stock as compared to that shareholder lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. for purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. in 2000 and 2001, marketaxess holdings inc. and marketaxess corporation had an ownership change. net operating loss carryforwards of $37.6 million existed as of the date of ownership change. however, only $5.2 million 30 table of contents are deemed utilizable and recognized in the net operating loss carryforward figure. marketaxess holdings inc. and greenline financial technologies, inc. experienced ownership changes in 2007 and 2008, respectively. we do not believe that these ownership changes significantly impact our ability to utilize existing or acquired net operating loss carryforwards. the issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional ownership change. for, example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with a stock repurchase program, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be undertaken. in addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. the extent of the actual future use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. we cannot give any assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel continues to be competitive despite overall economic conditions, as electronic commerce has experienced growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. termination of employees may result in additional costs we are currently involved in an arbitration case filed by a former employee. we believe that the claims are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. however, an adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 31 table of contents regardless of the outcome of this case, we may incur significant expense and management time dealing with these and other such claims. in addition, we have paid severance amounts in connection with the involuntary termination of employees in the past and may offer severance packages in connection with future reductions in force, if any. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other events in the financial industry over the past 18 months, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. in november 2000, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice in 32 table of contents connection with the antitrust division investigation of electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. after compliance with all information requests, we received notice from the u.s. department of justice in 2004 that the investigation had been officially closed. as the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could commence in the future increases. additionally, the involvement of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our board of directors and as stockholders may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the united states. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; 33 table of contents acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of the recent economic turmoil which has, among other consequences, led to a depression in stock prices and the tightening of available credit. our existing investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and nasdaq rules promulgated in response to the sarbanes-oxley act. the requirements of these rules and regulations have imposed legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may in the future place undue strain on our systems and resources. the securities exchange act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. as a result, management attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. nasdaq rules also require that a majority of our board of directors and all of the members of certain sub-committees of the board of directors consist of independent directors. we cannot assure you that our board of directors will continue to include a majority of independent directors to comply with the requirements of these rules. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone 34 table of contents communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. risks related to our common stock market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. 35 table of contents we do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. accordingly, investors must rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our stockholders rights plan, amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. our board of directors has adopted a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. this plan entitles existing stockholders to rights, including the right to purchase shares of common stock, in the event of an acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. our stockholders rights plan could prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change of control of us by delaying or preventing a change of control. in addition, provisions of our charter documents and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2008, we had a $35.2 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $142.6 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, federal agency issues and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. 66 table of contents derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiary. as of december 31, 2008, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $20.0 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation, in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. 67 table of contentsrisk factors. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any potential growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately half of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. 20 table of contents because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in past periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. we anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. furthermore, resistance to the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients or a reduction in the number of dealers participating on our platform could have an adverse impact on our distribution fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades. we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, acts as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in these bond transactions by serving as counterparty to the two clients involved. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks which compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. we have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders. for the year ended december 31, 2009, $14.1 million or 14.7% of our commissions, for the year ended december 31, 2008, $12.5 million or 17.0% of our commissions, and for the year ended december 31, 2007, $31.4 million or 39.2% of our commissions, were generated by these stockholder broker-dealer clients. none of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to the reduction in the level of their equity ownership may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. the contractual obligations of our institutional investor clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. due to the unpredictability of our industry and our evolving business model, we have and may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. we base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate 23 table of contents and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an 24 table of contents interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. 25 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain 26 table of contents unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have received five patents and have filed patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that the patents applied for will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; 27 table of contents require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges as was the case in 2008 with the write-down of certain tws-related intangible assets. 28 table of contents we may be limited in our use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2009, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $82.4 million that will begin to expire in 2019. a net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. section 382 of the internal revenue code provides that when a company undergoes an ownership change, that company use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company stock as compared to that shareholder lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. for purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. the issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional ownership change. for, example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with a stock repurchase program, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be undertaken. in addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. the extent of the actual future use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. we cannot give any assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover and as electronic commerce continues to experience growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. 29 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. termination of employees may result in additional costs we are currently involved in an arbitration case filed by a former employee. we believe that the claims are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. however, an adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. regardless of the outcome of this case, we may incur significant expense and management time dealing with these and other such claims. in addition, we have paid severance amounts in connection with the involuntary termination of employees in the past and may offer severance packages in connection with future involuntary terminations, if any. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. 30 table of contents our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer that compete with each other, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; 31 table of contents acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. 32 table of contents any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. risks related to our common stock market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our stockholders rights plan, organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. our board of directors adopted and our stockholders subsequently ratified a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. this plan entitles existing stockholders to rights, including the right to purchase shares of common stock, in the event of an acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. our stockholders rights plan could prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change of control of us by delaying or preventing a change of control. 33 table of contents in addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2009, we had a $71.0 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. 59 table of contents see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $174.3 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, u.s. government obligations and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiary. as of december 31, 2009, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $28.0 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through our subsidiary, marketaxess corporation, in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. 60risk factors. risks related to our business we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 57% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability over the past two years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. -22- table of contents because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past, and may experience decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. from time to time we may introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. furthermore, resistance to the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients or a reduction in the number of dealers participating on our platform could have an adverse impact on our distribution fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -23- table of contents we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades . we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, and marketaxess europe limited, our u.k. subsidiary, act as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in these bond transactions by serving as counterparty to the two clients involved. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 15.8%, 12.1% and 10.8% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. this institutional investor client also beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. the contractual obligations of our institutional investor clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -24- table of contents if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. -25- table of contents rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -26- table of contents we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. -27- table of contents in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have received seven patents and have filed patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that the patents applied for will be issued. -28- table of contents additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; -29- table of contents we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. they may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges as was the case in 2008 with the write-down of certain tws-related intangible assets. we may be limited in our use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2010, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $29.8 million that will begin to expire in 2021. a net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. section 382 of the internal revenue code provides that when a company undergoes an ownership change, that company use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company stock as compared to that shareholder lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. for purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. the issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional ownership change. for, example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with a share repurchase program, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be undertaken. in addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. the extent of the actual future use of our u.s. net operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. we cannot give any assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. -30- table of contents we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover and as electronic commerce continues to experience growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. -31- table of contents we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. for example, during 2010 the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law. among other things, the dodd-frank act creates an entirely new structure for the trading of over-the-counter derivatives, a market in which we currently operate. changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealers that compete with each other, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the united states; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; -32- table of contents difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -33- table of contents risks related to our industry if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. risks related to our common stock market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. -34- table of contents most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our stockholders rights plan, organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. our board of directors adopted and our stockholders subsequently ratified a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. this plan entitles existing stockholders to rights, including the right to purchase shares of common stock, in the event of an acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. our stockholders rights plan could prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change of control of us by delaying or preventing a change of control. in addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2010, we had a $72.6 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . -61- table of contents interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $197.5 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, u.s. government obligations and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiary. as of december 31, 2010, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contract was $29.1 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. -62- table of contentsrisk factors. risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past and may experience similar decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will 25 table of contents index to financial statements continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 60% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability over the past three years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; respond effectively to the loss of any of our broker-dealer clients due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause, including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from any such clients; 26 table of contents index to financial statements expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. from time to time we may introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. for example, as a result of the effect on our eurobond trading volumes of continuing sovereign debt concerns and the competitive environment in europe, we intend to amend our european broker-dealer plan effective march 1, 2012; this amendment will reduce the distribution fees charged to our european broker-dealer clients but leave dealer variable transaction fees unchanged. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades . we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, and marketaxess europe limited, our u.k. subsidiary, act as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in these bond transactions by serving as counterparty to the two clients involved. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. 27 table of contents index to financial statements we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 14.6%, 15.8% and 12.1% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. this institutional investor client also beneficially owns approximately 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. the contractual obligations of our institutional investor clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; 28 table of contents index to financial statements new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. 29 table of contents index to financial statements developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. 30 table of contents index to financial statements our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we, or our third party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; 31 table of contents index to financial statements financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. cyber attacks on our systems or the systems of our third party service providers could expose us to a risk of misappropriation of this information, leading to litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. any cybersecurity breach may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a cyber attack or security breach on our system or that of a third party service provider could manifest in different ways and could lead to any number of harmful consequences, including but not limited to: misappropriation of financial assets, intellectual property or sensitive information belonging to us, our clients or our third party service providers; corruption of data or causing operational disruption through computer viruses or phishing; and denial of service attacks to prevent users from accessing our platform. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any stolen assets or misappropriated confidential information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. 32 table of contents index to financial statements we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have received seven patents and have filed patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that the patents applied for will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. 33 table of contents index to financial statements we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. 34 table of contents index to financial statements determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover from the financial crisis and as electronic commerce continues to experience strong growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; 35 table of contents index to financial statements our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. for example, during 2010 the dodd-frank act was signed into law. the dodd-frank act creates an entirely new structure for the trading of over-the-counter derivatives, a market in which we currently operate. among other things, the dodd-frank act mandates that clearable swaps trade on a board of trade designated as a contract market or a securities exchange or through a swap execution facility, or sef (in each case, subject to certain key exceptions). while we expect that the cftc and sec will adopt rules that detail the new regulatory regime regarding the swaps market place in 2012, no assurance can be given regarding when, or whether, such rules will be finalized and implemented. subject to such rulemaking, we intend to establish, register and operate a swap execution facility and/or a security/based swap execution facility. we have incurred significant costs to prepare for compliance with the new regulatory requirements. we developed new technology and trading protocols to trade cds in anticipation of the sec and cftc implementation of the dodd-frank act. however, despite our efforts, there is no assurance that we will qualify as a registered sef or that our compliance systems will be effective. if we do not qualify as a sef, we will no longer be able to support cds trades and our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer as a result. if we qualify as a sef, the registration and additional oversight that we will need to comply with the regulation will increase the costs of our operations and the costs of using our products for our clients. furthermore, we are unable to predict how the markets will respond to the new regulatory regime. any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. the proposed volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. the volcker rule could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. 36 table of contents index to financial statements our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess &reg; , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. as an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealers that compete with each other, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. at any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. for example, the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have a material adverse effect on our business. increased government deficits and debt levels along with ratings downgrades sparked fears in the global financial markets of default by euro zone nations, leading to increased yields on government bonds and resulting in a more difficult trading environment for european corporate bonds. due, in part, to the crisis and competitive environment in europe, trading volume in our eurobond product has significantly decreased. we intend to reduce the monthly distribution fees paid by our european broker-dealer market makers effective march 1, 2012 in order to encourage eurobond trading, which will result in decreased monthly distribution fee revenues. despite our efforts, there is no assurance that eurobond trading volumes and revenues will increase as a result of this change. 37 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of the financial services authority in the u.k. and foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe are developing new rules for derivatives trading. for example, the european commission has issued three consultation papers intended to help define certain terms in the new otc derivatives landscape and, in 2010, proposed legislation that mandates, among other things, central clearing of standardized cds contracts. although the european regulators have not yet adopted such legislation, our expectation is that the eu will, in line with the u.s., require central clearing of standardized cds contracts and increase transparency through enhanced trade reporting requirements. however, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the eu to trade standardized cds contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if they fail. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. in addition, the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or keep us from engaging in some of our operations. we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. 38 table of contents index to financial statements we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a 39 table of contents index to financial statements large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had a $78.1 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $247.7 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, u.s. government obligations and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiary. as of december 31, 2011, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contract was $28.7 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties 68 table of contents index to financial statements may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. cash and cash equivalents includes cash and money market instruments that are primarily maintained at one major global bank. given this concentration, we are exposed to certain credit risk. 69 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors. risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past and may experience similar decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -22- table of contents we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 60% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability over the past three years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. -23- table of contents because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; respond effectively to the loss of any of our broker-dealer clients due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause, including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. from time to time we have and may introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades . we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. marketaxess corporation, our u.s. subsidiary, and marketaxess europe limited, our u.k. subsidiary, act as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in these bond transactions by serving as counterparty to the two clients involved. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. -24- table of contents we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies may not provide full protection from such risk. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. in addition, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries over the past several years. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 13.5%, 14.6% and 15.8% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. this institutional investor client also beneficially owns approximately 7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. the contractual obligations of our institutional investor clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; -25- table of contents changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. -26- table of contents developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. for example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients or institutional investor clients perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors systems. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -27- table of contents as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we, or our third party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. -28- table of contents in these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. cyber attacks on our systems or the systems of our third party service providers could expose us to a risk of misappropriation of this information, leading to litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. any cybersecurity breach may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a cyber attack or security breach on our system or that of a third party service provider could manifest in different ways and could lead to any number of harmful consequences, including but not limited to: misappropriation of financial assets, intellectual property or sensitive information belonging to us, our clients or our third party service providers; corruption of data or causing operational disruption through computer viruses or phishing; and denial of service attacks to prevent users from accessing our platform. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any stolen assets or misappropriated confidential information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have received 11 patents and have filed patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that the patents applied for will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. -29- table of contents we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. on october 26, 2012, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of xtrakter. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments, including the pending xtrakter acquisition, may involve a number of risks, including: -30- table of contents we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; significant decrease in our cash reserves; entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits; incurring unanticipated acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security (including security from cyber-attacks), privacy practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; incurring significant exit charges if acquired products or services are unsuccessful; potential inability to certify that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; potential inability to obtain, or obtain in an efficient manner, approvals from applicable governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and potential incompatibility of business cultures. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. -31- table of contents the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover from the financial crisis and as electronic commerce continues to experience strong growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -32- table of contents our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec and finra. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. we have two major operating subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. xtrakter is registered, and upon consummation of the pending acquisition will continue to be registered, as an approved reporting mechanism with the fsa. xtrakter also has recognized status in france, the netherlands and belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. for example, during 2010 the dodd-frank act was signed into law. the dodd-frank act creates an entirely new structure for the trading of over-the-counter derivatives, a market in which we currently operate. among other things, the dodd-frank act mandates that clearable swaps trade on a board of trade designated as a contract market or a securities exchange or through a swap execution facility, or sef (in each case, subject to certain key exceptions). while we expect that the cftc and sec will adopt rules that detail the new regulatory regime regarding the swaps market place in 2013, no assurance can be given regarding when, or whether, such rules will be finalized and implemented. subject to such rulemaking, we intend to establish, register and operate a swap execution facility and/or a security-based swap execution facility. we have incurred significant costs to prepare for compliance with the new regulatory requirements. we developed new technology and trading protocols to trade cds in anticipation of the sec and cftc implementation of the dodd-frank act. however, despite our efforts, there is no assurance that we will qualify as a registered sef or that our compliance systems will be effective. if we do not qualify as a sef, we will no longer be able to support cds trades and our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer as a result. if we qualify as a sef, the registration and additional oversight that we will need to comply with the regulation will increase the costs of our operations and the costs of using our products for our clients. furthermore, we are unable to predict how the markets will respond to the new regulatory regime. -33- table of contents any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. the proposed volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. the volcker rule could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, dealeraxess &reg; , is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. for example, the sovereign debt crisis in europe may have a material adverse effect on our business. increased government deficits and debt levels along with ratings downgrades sparked fears in the global financial markets of default by euro zone nations, leading to increased yields on government bonds and resulting in a more difficult trading environment for european corporate bonds. due, in part, to the crisis and competitive environment in europe, trading volume in our eurobond product has significantly decreased. we reduced the monthly distribution fees paid by our european broker-dealer market makers effective march 1, 2012 in order to encourage eurobond trading, which resulted in decreased monthly distribution fee revenues. despite our efforts, eurobond trading volumes continued to decline. there is no assurance that eurobond trading volumes and revenues will not continue to decline despite this change and any other efforts we may undertake. -34- table of contents in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of the financial services authority in the u.k. and foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe and elsewhere are developing new rules for derivatives trading. for example, the european parliament and the eu council of ministers endorsed an agreement that will, among other things, require central clearing of standardized otc derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (otc or otherwise) to trade repositories. however, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the eu to trade standardized cds contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms. we cannot predict what future actions the u.s., u.k. and other regulatory bodies might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients trading activities on our platform. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if they fail. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. in addition, the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or keep us from engaging in some of our operations. we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in particular, we may not be successful in implementing all of the necessary processes to support and manage the pending xtrakter acquisition. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our pending acquisition of xtrakter, see the risk factor captioned if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. over the past few years, there have been several high-profile cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees of financial services firms. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. -35- table of contents we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit facility are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. we expect that debt financing, if available at all, would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpm, which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $50.0 million. subject to satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million in total. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; create or incur liens; change our line of business; sell or transfer assets; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments; consummate a merger or consolidation; enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. -36- table of contents we are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries, including the u.s. and the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in u.s. dollars, pounds sterling and euros. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the exposure to variability in foreign currency cash flows and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of the company internal controls over financial reporting. -37- table of contents while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. -38- table of contents provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2012, we had a $51.2 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2012, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $180.1 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, u.s. government obligations and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiary. as of december 31, 2012, the notional value of our foreign currency forward contract was $15.8 million. in october 2012, we purchased a foreign exchange call option to economically hedge the xtrakter purchase price of &pound;26.0 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. cash and cash equivalents includes cash and money market instruments that are primarily maintained at one major global bank. given this concentration we are exposed to certain credit risk. -64- table of contentsrisk factors. risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past and may experience similar decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 57% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability over the past five years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. 22 table of contents because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to the loss of any of our broker-dealer clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients); respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. from time to time we have and may introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond, eurobond, cds and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions in which we act as a riskless principal intermediary . we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a riskless principal will increase. 23 table of contents we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies may not provide full protection from such risk. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. in addition, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries over the past several years. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 12.5%, 13.5% and 14.6% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, investment funds managed by this institutional investor client beneficially owned approximately 9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, primarily through passive index and etf funds. the obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; 24 table of contents our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. for example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. however, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities, including among other things, our proposed operation of a sef and a security-based sef under the dodd-frank act, will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: 25 table of contents enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third-party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. 26 table of contents our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we, or our third-party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. 27 table of contents any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, our redundant systems and disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients proprietary information. the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. cyber attacks on our systems or the systems of our third-party service providers could expose us to a risk of misappropriation of this information, leading to litigation and possible liability. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. any cybersecurity breach may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a cyber attack or security breach on our system or that of a third-party service provider could manifest in different ways and could lead to any number of harmful consequences, including but not limited to: misappropriation of financial assets, intellectual property or sensitive information belonging to us, our clients or our third-party service providers; corruption of data or causing operational disruption through computer viruses or phishing; and denial of service attacks to prevent users from accessing our platform. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any stolen assets or misappropriated confidential information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. 28 table of contents we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have been issued 12 patents and have filed other patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that the patents applied for will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. on february 28, 2013, we acquired xtrakter. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments, including the xtrakter acquisition, may involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; our ongoing business and management attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; significant decrease in our cash reserves; entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits; incurring unanticipated acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security (including security from cyber-attacks), privacy practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; incurring significant exit charges if acquired products or services are unsuccessful; potential inability to certify that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; potential inability to obtain, or obtain in an efficient manner, approvals from applicable governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and potential incompatibility of business cultures. 30 table of contents these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover from the financial crisis and as electronic commerce continues to experience strong growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. 31 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the sec, finra, the cftc and the fca. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary principal regulator. xtrakter is registered as an approved reporting mechanism with the fca. xtrakter also has recognized status in france, the netherlands and belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators. marketaxess sef corporation has received temporary registration from the cftc to operate a sef, and we intend to register with the sec and operate a security-based sef. in addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. for example, in july 2010 the dodd-frank act was signed into law. among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the dodd-frank act are mandatory clearing of swaps through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or sefs, in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. the cftc rules relating to the trading of swaps on sefs were implemented on october 2, 2013. effective february 26, 2014, counterparties must execute swaps that are subject to the made available for trade determinations on a sef or designated contract market. the sec has not yet finalized its rules for security-based sefs, nor has it published a timetable for the finalization and implementation of such rules. no assurance can be given regarding when, whether or in what form the remaining rules regarding the new regulatory regime for the swaps marketplace will be finalized or implemented. 32 table of contents we have incurred significant costs to prepare for compliance with the new regulatory requirements. we developed new technology and trading protocols to trade cds in anticipation of the sec and cftc implementation of the dodd-frank act. however, despite our efforts, there is no assurance that we will qualify or maintain our qualifications as a registered sef or that our systems will be effective. if we do not qualify as a sef, we will no longer be able to support cds trades and our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer as a result. if we qualify as a sef, the registration and additional oversight that we will need to comply with the regulation will increase the costs of our operations and the costs of using our products for our clients. furthermore, we are unable to predict how the markets will respond to the new regulatory regime. any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. for example, the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. our central limit order book trading service for single-name cds and our mid-x matching service for corporate bonds are regulated as alternative trading systems subject to regulation ats. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and may further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. 33 table of contents our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of the fca in the u.k. and foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe and elsewhere are developing new rules for derivatives trading. for example, the european parliament and the eu council of ministers endorsed an agreement that will, among other things, require central clearing of standardized otc derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (otc or otherwise) to trade repositories. however, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the eu to trade standardized cds contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms. we cannot predict what future actions the u.s., u.k. and other regulatory bodies might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients trading activities on our platform. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. in addition, the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or keep us from engaging in some of our operations. we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in particular, we may not be successful in implementing all of the necessary processes to support and manage the xtrakter acquisition. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our acquisition of xtrakter, see the risk factor captioned if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 34 table of contents in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. over the past few years, there have been several high-profile cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees of financial services firms. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit facility are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. we expect that debt financing, if available at all, would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpm, which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $50.0 million. subject to satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million in total. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; create or incur liens; change our line of business; 35 table of contents sell or transfer assets; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments; consummate a merger or consolidation; enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. we are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries, including the u.s. and the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in u.s. dollars, pounds sterling and euros. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the exposure to variability in certain foreign currency cash flows and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 36 table of contents as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of the company internal controls over financial reporting. while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 37 table of contents provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2013, we had a $67.7 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our industry global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments, u.s. treasury obligations and fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $200.4 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, corporate bonds and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2013, the notional fair value of our foreign currency forward contract was $29.9 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk we act as a riskless principal through marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled through an independent third-party clearing organization. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. cash and cash equivalents includes cash and money market instruments that are primarily maintained at one major global bank. given this concentration, we are exposed to certain credit risk. 65 table of contentsrisk factors. risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the effect of federal reserve board quantitative easing, the tapering of quantitative easing, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements and political impasses; concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and legislative and regulatory changes. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past and may experience similar decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. a decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, and information services or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 53% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by an adverse change in the regions in which we operate. historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the u.s. and the u.k. while we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas. accordingly, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these two countries. moreover, due to the concentration of our operations in these areas, such operations are less diversified and, accordingly, are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. if we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 21 because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on our platform on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to the loss of any of our significant broker-dealer or institutional investor clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients); respond effectively to competitive pressures; diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate; past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. from time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the u.s. high-grade corporate bond and other market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our u.s. high-grade transaction fee is generally designated in basis points in yield and, as a result, is subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded. we anticipate that average u.s. high-grade fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. we are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary . we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. in connection with open 22 trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. in the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients can arise whereby one of the counterparties to the transaction rejects the trade or otherwise refuses to settle their side of the transaction on the terms recorded by our platform. these unsettled or rejected trades are referred to as out trades, and they create a potential liability for our subsidiary involved in the trade. if an error is promptly discovered and alleged by a client and there is a prompt cancellation of the trade or disposition of the unmatched position by us or the other party to the trade, the risk to us is usually limited. if the discovery of an error by a client is delayed, the risk is heightened by the increased possibility of intervening movements in the price of the applicable security prior to disposition. although out trades usually become known at the time of, or later on the day of, the trade, it is possible that they may not be discovered until later in the settlement process. although our error policies and procedures are intended to limit our liability in the event of an out trade, the occurrence of out trades generally rises with increases in the volatility of the market and, depending on their cause, number and amount, such out trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. in connection with the recent growth of our open trading protocols, we are also developing additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure. there can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers' primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. in addition, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries over the past several years. moreover, some of our large broker-dealer clients have announced plans to reduce their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 14.0%, 12.5%, and 13.5% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. as of december 31, 2014, investment funds managed by this institutional investor client beneficially owned approximately 9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, primarily through passive index and etf funds. the obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. 23 there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and new regulations that limit or affect how our electronic trading platform can operate or which increase our regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. for example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. however, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities, including among other things, our proposed operation of a sef and a security-based sef under the dodd-frank act, will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. 24 rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients' needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. disruptions in the services provided by that third-party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. 25 our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. we cannot assure you that we, or our third-party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients' trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. 26 in these circumstances, our redundant systems and disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. it is also a risk that we will not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all such system problems. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. our electronic trading platform involves the processing, storage and transmission of a very large number of transactions and data (including confidential client information). the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. cyber attacks on our systems or the systems of our third-party service providers could expose us to a risk of misappropriation of this information, leading to litigation and possible liability. despite the defensive measures we have taken, these threats may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom we have granted access to our computer systems. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. there have been an increasing number of malicious cyber incidents in recent years in various industries, including ours. any such cyber incident involving our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties important to our businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a cyber attack or security breach on our system or that of a third-party service provider could manifest in different ways and could lead to any number of harmful consequences, including but not limited to: misappropriation of financial assets, intellectual property or sensitive information belonging to us, our clients or our third-party service providers; corruption of data or causing operational disruption through computer viruses or phishing; and denial of service attacks to prevent users from accessing our platform. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any stolen assets or misappropriated confidential information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have been issued 13 patents and have filed other patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we 27 cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management's attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. for example, we acquired xtrakter in february 2013. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments, including the xtrakter acquisition, may involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; 28 our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product; and exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. our investments in expanding our information and post-trade services businesses may not produce substantial revenue or profit. with respect to our information and post-trade services businesses, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service. even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or sell only small amounts of these products or services. consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion and development initiatives, the up-front costs associated with them may exceed the related revenue and reduce our working capital and income. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey's employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey's services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. 29 competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel is increasingly competitive as the financial industry continues to recover from, and evolve following, the financial crisis and as electronic commerce continues to experience strong growth. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. the expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations. these regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. the sec, finra, the cftc and other agencies extensively regulate the united states financial services industry, including most of our operations in the united states. much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the fca in the united kingdom, the monetary authority of singapore, the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and provincial regulators in canada, the securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil, and the swiss financial market supervisory authority in switzerland. in addition, xtrakter is registered as an arm with the fca and has recognized status in france, the netherlands and belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited are subject to u.s. and u.k. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a mtf, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary's principal regulator. marketaxess sef corporation has received temporary registration from the cftc to operate a sef and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. our authority to operate as a broker-dealer in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. our systems and procedures 30 may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. in addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. in addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. the implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. for a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see item 1 business government regulation. some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. these regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of marketaxess. as a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the united states congress, in state legislatures and by foreign governments. the government agencies that regulate us continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives, may adopt new or revised laws and regulations and have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. in light of recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. we are unable to predict which of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and that of our clients are also affected by the policies adopted by the federal reserve and international central banking authorities, which may affect the credit quality of our customers or increase the cost for our customers to trade the instruments on our platform. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may directly impact our cost of funds for capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. in addition, following the global financial crisis and other recent events in the financial industry, governments and regulators in both the united states and europe have called for increased regulation and transparency in the otc markets. as a result, the dodd-frank act was signed into law in 2010. among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the dodd-frank act are mandatory clearing of swaps through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or sefs, in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. marketaxess sef corporation has received temporary registration from the cftc to operate a sef for credit derivative indices and options, and we currently anticipate that we will register with the sec and operate a security-based sef when the sec finalizes the rules that will govern the execution of single-name credit derivatives. no assurance can be given regarding when, whether or in what form the remaining rules regarding the new regulatory regime for the swaps marketplace will be finalized or implemented or whether we will be able to operate a sef or security-based sef that can successfully compete for the credit derivative execution business of our clients. in addition, we have incurred significant costs to comply with the new regulatory requirements of the dodd-frank act and we cannot assure you that the additional costs associated with the registration and operation of a sef and security-based sef will not exceed our expected revenues or that our financial condition and results of operations will not be adversely affected. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe are developing new rules for the fixed-income markets. in june 2014, the final texts of mifid ii and mifir were published in the official journal of the european union. a large amount of implementation work is left to be completed and the rules of mifid ii and mifir will not take effect for 30 months after publication, or until january 2017. mifid ii introduces changes in market structure designed: (i) to enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. while the broad framework of mifid ii is known, we believe that it is too early for there to be clarity on the specific aspects of the proposals which may directly impact our businesses, such as the new transparency regime for fixed-income instruments, as some rules and technical advice have not yet been finalized. the final rules may have an adverse 31 effect on our operations or our ability to provide our electronic trading platform in a manner that can successfully compete against other types of regulated and non-regulated venues for the fixed-income trading needs of our clients. in addition, mifid ii is expected to increase the regulatory obligations and costs of our post-trade reporting and matching businesses. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes will impact our european business and operations, but they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development and growth of impacted markets to become impractical. for example, the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. other regulatory initiatives include basel iii, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and liquidity in most of the world's major economies by 2019. the implementation of these rules could restrict the ability of our large bank and broker-dealer customers to raise additional capital and liquidity. as a result, their businesses could be adversely affected, which might cause them to trade less on our platform. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. currently, our central limit order book trading service for single-name credit derivatives and our mid-x matching service for corporate bonds are regulated as alternative trading systems subject to regulation ats. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe and may further expand our operations throughout europe and other regions. there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of the fca in the u.k. and foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe have approved the final texts of mifid ii and mifir, which will enter into effect in january 2017. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our european business and operations, but they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 we cannot predict what future actions the u.s., u.k. and other regulatory bodies might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients' trading activities on our platform. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. extensive regulation of our businesses results in ongoing exposure to potential significant costs and penalties. our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. many of these regulators, including u.s. and non-u.s. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the u.s., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. self-regulatory organizations such as finra and the national futures association ( nfa ), along with statutory bodies such as the sec, the cftc, finra, and the fca, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the sec, the cftc, finra, the nfa, state securities commissions and state attorneys general in the u.s., and the fca in the u.k. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. this trend toward a heightened regulatory and enforcement environment can be expected to continue for the foreseeable future, and this environment may create uncertainty. accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail. to manage the risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, legal, regulatory, operational and market risks. our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. if our risk-management policies and efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory, operational and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in particular, we may not be successful in implementing all of the necessary processes to support and manage the xtrakter acquisition. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our acquisition of xtrakter, see the risk factor captioned if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. 33 we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. over the past few years, there have been several high-profile cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees of financial services firms. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit facility are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. the growth of our open trading protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. in addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us. all or part of any debt financing would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co., which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $50.0 million. subject to satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; create or incur liens; change our line of business; sell or transfer assets; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments; consummate a merger or consolidation; enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. we are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. we and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if the use of electronic trading platforms does not increase, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. the success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. the utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities, including for larger size trades. we cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries, including the u.s. and the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in u.s. dollars, pounds sterling and euros. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. 35 although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the exposure to variability in certain foreign currency cash flows and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management's attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future. if we were to cease paying dividends, investors would need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. 36 if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquirer to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. market risk the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and revenues. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2014, we had a $64.9 million investment in securities available-for-sale. adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities, could result in a substantial loss. in addition, principal gains and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. see also item 1a . risk factors , risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer . interest rate risk interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate changes with respect to the money market instruments and fixed-income securities in which we invest. as of december 31, 2014, our cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale amounted to $233.8 million and were primarily invested in money market instruments, corporate bonds and municipal securities. we do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform. derivative risk our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the foreign currency forward contract market. we use this market to mitigate our u.s. dollar versus pound sterling exposure that arises from the activities of our u.k. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2014, the notional fair value of our foreign currency forward contract was $32.0 million. we do not speculate in any derivative instruments. credit risk our subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation and marketaxess europe limited, act as a matched principal counterparty in certain transactions that we execute between clients. we act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which then settle through a third-party clearing broker. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. in connection with open trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. in the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients can arise whereby one of the counterparties to the transaction rejects the trade or otherwise refuses to settle their side of the transaction on the terms recorded by our platform. these unsettled or rejected trades are referred to as out trades, and they create a potential liability for our subsidiary involved in the trade. if an error is promptly discovered and alleged by a client and there is a prompt cancellation of the trade or disposition of the unmatched position by us or the other party to the trade, the risk to us is usually limited. if the discovery of an error by a client is delayed, the risk is heightened by the increased possibility of intervening movements in the price of the applicable security prior to disposition. although out trades usually become known at the time of, or later on the day of, the trade, it is possible that they may not be discovered until later in the settlement process. although our error policies and procedures are intended to limit our liability in the event of an out trade, the occurrence of out trades generally rises with increases in the volatility of the 63 market and, depending on their cause, number and amount, such out trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. in connection with the recent growth of our open trading protocols, we are also developing additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure. there can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. cash and cash equivalents includes cash and money market instruments that are primarily maintained at one major global bank. given this concentration, we are exposed to certain credit risk in relation to our deposits at this bank. 64risk factors. item 1. business. marketaxess holdings inc. (the company or marketaxess ) operates a leading electronic trading platform that enables fixed-income market participants to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments using our patented trading technology. over 1,200 institutional investor and broker-dealer firms are active users of our trading platform, accessing global liquidity in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, european bonds, u.s. agency bonds, municipal bonds, credit default swaps and other fixed-income securities. through our open trading protocols, we execute trades in certain bonds between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in an all-to-all trading environment on a matched principal basis. we also offer a number of trading-related products and services, including: market data to assist clients with trading decisions; connectivity solutions that facilitate straight-through processing; technology services to optimize trading environments; and execution services for exchange-traded fund managers and other clients. through our trax division, we also offer a range of pre- and post-trade services, including trade matching, regulatory transaction reporting, and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income and other products. our platform's innovative technology solutions are designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform and create a menu of solutions to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics. our traditional request-for-quote model allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. our open trading protocols complement our request-for-quote model by increasing the number of potential counterparties and improving liquidity by allowing all participants to interact anonymously in an all-to-all trading environment. our platform also provides our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for fixed-income securities, which makes it difficult to match buyers and sellers for particular issues. many market participants also use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading these securities. while electronic communication methods have addressed some of the limitations associated with traditional bond trading methods, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. our disclosed multi-dealer request for quote ( rfq ) trading functionality addresses many of the remaining shortcomings that result from trading bonds over the telephone or via e-mail. through our rfq trading protocols, our institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, and then trade those securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients' inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) available on our bondticker tm service and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from all of our participating broker-dealer clients during the trade process. on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. however, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price 3 differential of t he bonds. once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we are not a party to any of the disclosed trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact directly with each other. however, in connection with our open trading protocols, we execute bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. in 2016, 13.2% of all marketaxess platform volume was executed via open trading protocols, up from 9.2% in the 2015. according to the securities industry and financial markets association ( sifma ), outstanding u.s. high-grade corporate bond debt has increased approximately 21.4% from year-end 2012 to september 30, 2016, the most recent date available. during this same period, financial market regulators have implemented increased capital requirements for bank-owned broker-dealers holding corporate bond inventory. as a result, corporate bond debt owned by institutional investors has increased, while the available base of capital for dealer market making has declined. partly as a result of these trends, overall secondary turnover as a percentage of corporate debt outstanding has been falling, causing all market participants to look for new electronic trading solutions to improve liquidity and turnover. we have responded with a series of open trading tm protocols designed to allow our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. during 2016, over 600 participating client firms provided liquidity via our open trading solutions and we completed approximately 407,000 open trading trades, an increase of 130% compared to 2015. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. corporate bonds and approximately 82% of the underwriting of newly issued european corporate bonds in 2016. we believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. in addition to trading fixed-income securities by traditional means, including the telephone and e-mail, our broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems and other trading platforms, as well as our electronic trading platform. we believe that the traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bond volume is traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. in 2016, our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 16% of the total estimated u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, as reported by the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ). trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter ( otc ) secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities in the u.s., including trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, as well as inter-dealer and retail trading. all broker-dealers that are finra member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). through our trax brand, we provide trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for european securities and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income products. trax provides the company with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from the markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ) ii in europe. in 2016, 90% of our revenues were derived from commissions for trades executed on our platform and distribution fees that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. we also derive revenues from information and post-trade services, technology products and services, investment income and other income. our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and other general and administrative expenses. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of september 30, 2016, the most recent date available, there were approximately $40.8 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $8.6 trillion principal amount of u.s. corporate bonds, according to sifma. the estimated average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds, as measured by trace, was $26.8 billion in 2016. primary dealer holdings of u.s. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield) as reported by the federal reserve bank of new york were $9.5 billion as of december 31, 2016. this represents less than one day of trading volume as measured by trace. 4 u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 or better by moody's investor service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). we use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market. finra includes over 53,000 unique securities in the list of trace-eligible bonds, representing the majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds. according to sifma, u.s. high-grade corporate bond debt outstanding has increased approximately 21.4% from $7.0 trillion at year-end 2012 to $8.6 trillion at september 30, 2016. over the last five years, high-grade corporate bond issuance was over $1.0 trillion each year, exceeding pre-financial crisis levels. notwithstanding the growth in the total amount of debt outstanding, turnover (which is the total amount traded as a percentage of the amount outstanding for the bonds that traded) is below credit-crisis lows. the trading volume of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by trace increased to approximately $4.6 trillion for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $4.0 trillion and $3.7 trillion for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we believe that the low level of turnover is an indicator of liquidity challenges in the credit markets. prior to regulatory reforms such as basel iii and regulations under the dodd frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), dealer balance sheets were relatively elastic, so dealers were able to facilitate trading in most fixed-income products without dramatic price moves. the regulatory reforms enacted after the global financial crisis resulted in greater capital and liquidity requirements for dealers, which impacted market liquidity and diminished risk appetite by market intermediaries. the volcker rule, which limits proprietary trading by banks, has also had an impact on dealer inventories and the ability of dealers to act as effective market-makers. as a result, we believe market participants require new solutions to increase liquidity and we have responded with our open trading protocols, designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform by allowing our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar, euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. the average daily trading volume of emerging markets debt, as reported by the emerging markets trade association for the quarter ended september 30, 2016, the most recent date available, was $7.8 billion of external markets debt and $13.7 billion of local markets debt. u.s. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment-grade by one agency but investment-grade by the other . the total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance as reported by sifma decreased by 9.6% to $236.6 billion in 2016 from $261.7 billion in 2015, primarily due to risk aversion among corporate bond investors that severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new debt. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by trace for the year ended december 31, 2016 was approximately $8.5 billion. european corporate bond market the european corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency; bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling intended to be distributed to european investors, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market; bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the world bank), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, 5 u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. we believe that the european corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. the total amount of euro denominated high-grade and high-yield bonds yearly issuance as reported by international capital markets association increased by 4.7% to $390.4 billion in 2016 from $373.0 billion in 2015. the average daily trading volume of european corporate bonds as estimated by trax for the year ended december 31, 2016 was approximately $8.2 billion. u.s. agency bond market we define the u.s. agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored enterprise. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the federal national mortgage association and federal home loan mortgage corporation. the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $2.0 trillion as of september 30, 2016 as reported by sifma. the average daily trading volume of u.s. agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by trace increased from approximately $5.0 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 to $5.1 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. u.s. municipal bond market municipal bonds are debt securities issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities in the u.s. to fund day-to-day obligations and to finance a wide variety of public projects, such as highways or water systems. depending on the type of financing, payments of the principal and interest on a municipal bond may come from general revenues of the municipal issuer, specific tax receipts, revenues generated from a public project, or payments from private entities or from a combination of sources. in addition to being issued for many different purposes, municipal securities are also issued in many different forms, such as fixed rate, zero coupon or variable rate bonds. the interest paid on municipal securities is typically exempt from federal income taxation and may be exempt from state income and other taxes as well. as of december 31, 2016, there were over one million different municipal bonds outstanding, in the total aggregate principal amount of more than $3.8 trillion. the average daily trading volume of municipal bonds as measured by the municipal securities rulemaking board ( msrb ) for the year ended december 31, 2016 was approximately $7.4 billion. credit derivative market credit derivatives are contracts on an underlying asset that transfer risk and return from one party to another without transferring ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. among the most significant requirements of the derivatives section of the dodd-frank act are mandatory clearing of certain derivatives transactions ( swaps ) through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or swap execution facilities ( sefs ), in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. we operate a swap execution facility pursuant to the u.s. commodity futures trading commission's ( cftc ) rules and we list certain credit derivatives for trading by u.s. persons and other participants on our sef. the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) has not yet finalized its rules for security-based sefs that would govern the execution of single-name credit derivatives, nor has it published a timetable for the finalization and implementation of such rules. according to the depository trust &amp; clearing corporation trade information warehouse, the average daily trading volume of credit derivatives for the year ended december 31, 2016 was approximately $82.3 billion. trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services in europe, the first mifid set best-execution requirements for trades and mandated that financial firms submit to their local regulators detailed end-of-day reports, including the time and price of a trade, the counterparty involved and whether it was a purchase or sale. firms must either become so-called approved reporting mechanisms ( arms ) or use one of the approved providers , such as our trax arm to submit such reports . in the u.k., required transactions are reported to the financial conduct authority ( fca ). mifid ii will increase the number of fields that must be reported to regulators and we expect the demand for experienced regulatory trade reporting service providers to increase over the next several years. trade matching enables counterparties to agree the terms of a trade shortly after execution, reducing the risk of errors and a trade failing during settlement. in 2014, the central securities depositories regulation shortened the securities settlement cycle for all cash securities, including corporate bonds, across the european union ( eu ) to no later than two days after the date on which a trade is executed, referred to as a t+2 settlement cycle. with a shortened settlement cycle, firms use trade matching services, such as our trax match service in europe, to match trade details on trade date and reduce both operational and settlement risk. 6 our competitive strength our electronic trading platform provides solutions to many of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. the benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle: pre-trade in the pre-trade period, our platform assists our participants by providing them with value-added services, such as real time and historical trade price information, liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts; trade our innovative electronic trading platform enables our participants to, among other things, request and receive single and multiple security trade execution, with access to broad and unique sources of liquidity from our growing network of participating firms, and the ability to choose from a wide menu of electronic trading protocols to address different trade sizes and liquidity characteristics; and post-trade following the execution of a trade, our platform supports all of the essential tools and functionalities to enable our participants to realize the full benefits of electronic trading and demonstrate best execution, including real-time trade details, straight-through processing ( stp ), account allocations, automated audit trails, regulatory trade reporting, trade detail matching, and transaction cost analysis. we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: 7 significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of over 1,200 active institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients. as shown in the chart below, our total bond trading volume increased from $589.6 billion in 2012 to $1.3 trillion in 2016. our adjusted estimated share of u.s. high-grade and high-yield corporate bond volume for 2016 was approximately 16.0% and 7.0%, respectively. our estimated market share from 2012 to 2016 is shown in the chart below: * we adjusted the reported u.s. high-grade trace volumes to eliminate the increased reporting of affiliate back-to-back trades by certain broker-dealers that occurred from april 2014 through october 2015 because we believe that the trace volume, as adjusted by us, provide a more accurate comparison to prior period reporting. we have provided a reconciliation of the reported u.s. high-grade trace volumes to the adjusted u.s. high-grade trace volumes in the investor relations section of our website. 8 execution benefits to clients benefits to institutional investor clients we believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: competitive prices. by enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. for typical marketaxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-treasury responses is approximately 9 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). as an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $800.00. we believe our open trading tm protocols enhance our institutional investor clients' ability to obtain a competitive price by allowing all of our open trading tm participants to interact in an all-to-all trading environment, thereby increasing the potential sources of liquidity for each participant, as well as the likelihood of receiving a competitive price response. improved cost efficiency. we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. in addition, our bondticker tm service eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. limited information leakage. our open trading tm protocols allow our institutional investor clients to maintain their anonymity from trade initiation through to settlement without limiting their number of potential trading counterparties. in addition, our private axes tm protocol allows participants to negotiate bilaterally on an anonymous basis to minimize information leakage when transacting in larger trade sizes. benefits to broker-dealer clients we also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: greater sales efficiency. we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. more efficient inventory management. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure. benefits to both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients we offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including: transparent pricing on a range of securities. institutional investors and broker-dealer clients can search bonds in inventory based on combinations of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of market participants who will choose to provide an executable price. our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to other participants, who may respond with executable prices within the time period specified by the requestor. through our open trading protocols, participants may also elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our electronic trading platform, in order to create broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood that the request results in a trade. we believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs. greater trading accuracy. our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platform assists our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from manual entry of information into different systems. 9 efficient risk monitoring and compliance. institutional investors and their regulators are increasing ly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance per sonnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information, including time, price and spread-to-treasury, is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. this data represents a valua ble source of information for our clients' compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate tha t they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. other service offerings in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including: information services. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our bondticker tm service provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and marketaxess estimated spread-to-treasuries for publicly disseminated trace-eligible bonds. bondticker tm combines publicly-available trace data with the prices for trades executed on our u.s. bond trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time trace data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services. through our trax brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by market participants and leveraging our post-trade services for european securities. axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed income market, is sourced from over 30,000 bond transactions processed daily by trax and includes aggregated volume and pricing for the most actively traded european fixed income instruments. we also provide market participants with access to pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 50,000 unique fixed-income securities and securities reference data for approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities. post-trade services. our trax service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory reporting for the european markets. it allows subscribers to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments, including bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps. following the implementation of the t+2 settlement cycle for transferable securities in european markets, subscribers use trax to match trades on trade date and help reduce settlement risk. trax has approximately 100 clients, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. the trax platform processed approximately 1.2 billion transactions in 2016. 10 straight-through processing. stp refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. our electronic trading platform provides broker-dealers and ins titutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of exe cution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to the sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-deale rs for confirmation. technology products and services. we provide technology solutions and professional consulting services to fixed-income industry participants. technology projects have ranged from enhancing regional broker-dealer systems to developing full-fledged globally integrated trading networks. robust, scalable technology we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. the members of our management team average more than 20 years of experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. in recent years, marketaxess was awarded otc trading platform of the year by global capital, sef of the year by risk magazine, and best trading and execution technology by alt credit intelligence. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades; bondticker tm , our information services product, combining trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools; bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously; the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for credit derivative indices; public market lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community; and axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed income market. independence we believe the current regulatory environment creates competitive advantages for independent companies like us that are less prone to conflicts of interest. as an independent company, we are free to make business and trading protocol decisions with the best interests of both our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in mind. we are also able to attract industry leaders with valuable skills and insights to our independent board of directors. our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: 11 enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platform and broaden our client base in our existing markets we intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the marketaxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will, in turn, lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. we will seek to increase the amount of cross-regional activity by our institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, subject to regulatory requirements. leverage our existing client network and technology to increase counterparties and improve liquidity due to regulatory changes that have caused significant reductions in primary dealer corporate bond balance sheets, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients need new and innovative electronic trading solutions to promote secondary market liquidity. we intend to continue to develop and deploy a wide range of electronic trading protocols to complement our traditional request-for-quote model. these open trading protocols increase potential trading counterparties by allowing broker-dealers and institutional investors to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. during 2016, our clients executed approximately 407,000 trades using our open trading solutions. leverage our existing technology and client relationships to expand into new sectors of the fixed-income securities market we intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical services and products. due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. for example, during 2016, we expanded our platform to the municipal bond and leveraged loan markets. continue to strengthen and expand our trade-related service offerings we plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we expect to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation to settlement). we also plan to expand and enhance the trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services provided by trax in europe to enable our clients to comply with their heightened obligations pursuant to mifid ii. expand our data and information services offerings we regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to bondticker and axess all in order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. we intend to continue to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities, both in the u.s. and to the data service offering provided by trax in europe. as the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients. pursue select acquisitions and strategic alliances we plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients. for example, the acquisition of xtrakter limited ( xtrakter ) in february 2013 provided us with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from mifid ii in europe. in recent years, we entered into, and expanded, a strategic alliance with blackrock, inc. ( blackrock ) to combine blackrock's order flow with our open trading solution to improve the range of trading connections available to global credit market participants. in 2016, we entered into an agreement with s&amp;p dow jones indices to jointly develop indices that will track the most liquid segments of the u.s. corporate bond market. 12 marketaxess el ectronic trading platform key trading functionalities the key trading functionalities of the marketaxess electronic trading platform are detailed below. single inquiry trading functionality we offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from an unlimited number of our broker-dealer clients in all of our key trading products. our platform allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. this disclosed inquiry trading functionality combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading platform. institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform. asap and holding bin trading functionalities we offer both asap ( as soon as possible ) and holding bin trading protocols. in the holding bin trading protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers' prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. in the asap trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each broker-dealer's price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer. list trading functionality we offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of up to 200 bonds depending on the market. this facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure. open trading functionality we offer a series of open trading protocols that allows our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. our market list functionality provides our open trading participants with the ability to display live requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade. public axes is an order book-style price discovery process that gives clients the ability to view anonymous or disclosed indications of interest from the inventory on our platform. through the aggregated indication of interest inventory, clients can search for bonds of interest and engage in electronic transactions. for block-sized trades, clients may use our private axe functionality, a protocol that allows participants to anonymously negotiate round lots (greater than $1.0 million) and block trades to minimize information leakage. we offer open trading protocols for all of our key trading products, including corporate, municipal and emerging market bonds. bond trades executed pursuant to any of our anonymous open trading protocol are conducted with marketaxess on a matched principal basis. click-to-trade our click-to-trade functionality allows our investor clients to initiate an inquiry with a single click on stacks of distinctly displayed dealer bids and offers. in support of this functionality, pools of dealers stream attributable pricing for each instrument. click-to-trade is offered alongside our existing rfq product and allows pre-trade price discovery and fast-track execution. although currently limited to credit derivatives, u.s. treasuries and emerging markets, click-to-trade functionality may be applied to trading of other market sectors. sef trading for credit derivatives we offer a range of functionality for electronic trading of cftc regulated credit derivatives on our sef in compliance with the cftc's requirements. this includes an rfq system that allows participants to send anonymous or disclosed rfqs, as well as an order book, which enables market participants to trade anonymously with all other market participants. key trading products u.s. high-grade corporate bonds our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. both domestic and foreign institutional investors have access to u.s. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. our 2016 trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market was $730.6 billion. 13 in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market, 76 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by underwriting volume of new-issue u.s. corporate bonds in 2016. our bro ker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. corporate bonds in 2016. more than 900 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. emerging markets bonds over 70 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 800 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. these institutional investor clients are predominantly located in the u.s. and europe. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2016 were mexico, brazil, turkey, argentina and the russian federation. we also enable our institutional investor clients to transact local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations in countries that include argentina, brazil and mexico. our 2016 trading volume in the emerging market bond market was $223.6 billion. u.s. crossover and high-yield bonds over 70 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 800 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. in 2016, we launched leveraged loan trading for our clients that trade high-yield bonds. our 2016 trading volume in the high-yield bond market was $148.0 billion. eurobonds we offer secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also offer our clients the ability to trade in other european high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in british pounds sterling, floating rate notes, european government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. we offered the first platform in europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. our 2016 trading volume in the eurobond bond market was $133.8 billion. in the eurobond credit market, defined as including european high-grade, high-yield and government bonds, 41 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 19 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2016 european corporate new-issue underwriting volume. more than 400 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade european bonds. u.s. agency bonds over 35 of our broker-dealer clients and approximately 300 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. agency bonds. trading in u.s. agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. our 2016 trading volume in the u.s. agency bond market was $68.4 billion. municipal bonds we launched trading of municipal bonds on our platform in 2016 and more than 100 broker-dealer clients and 340 institutional investor firms have been on-boarded to trade municipal bonds. we offer trading for both taxable and non-taxable municipal bonds. credit derivatives marketaxess offers a complete solution for the trading of clearable and non-clearable credit derivative instruments, including indices, single-name swaps and index options. through our cftc-registered sef, we offer trading of credit derivative indices and credit options to approximately 150 market participants. we support the trading of single-name credit derivatives through our traditional rfq protocol, as well as through a central limit order book. information and post-trade services information services bondticker tm provides real-time trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools in order to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. the data includes trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to-treasuries, for trades disseminated by the trace system. the data also includes actual execution prices and spread-to-treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. bondticker tm is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal in the u.s . bondticker tm allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to 14 potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases , including direct trace feeds. bondticker tm also contains pricing information on a broad selection of european fixed-income securities. european pricing information is provided by trax's end-of-day pricing feed. bondticker tm is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. bondticker tm is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via a browser-based interface. we provide bondticker tm as an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. we derive revenues from our bondticker tm service by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. seat license fees are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through marketaxess. we also offer a set of tools that analyze credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. these tools utilize extensive amounts of market data and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats, depending on the business purpose. further, we provide extensive client-specific reports that measure trading performance on our electronic trading platform, including reports for the value of price discovery from multiple dealers, the cost savings generated from open trading participation and transaction cost analysis. through our trax brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by participants and leveraging our post-trade services for european securities. we recently launched axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed income market. axess all is sourced from over 30,000 bond transactions processed daily by trax through its post-trade services and includes aggregated volume and pricing for the most actively traded european fixed income instruments. post-trade services our trax service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for the european otc markets. subscribers use the trax platform to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments, including bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps. trax has approximately 100 clients, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. the trax platform processed approximately 1.2 billion transactions in 2016. straight-through processing and apis straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. there are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. for example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. external straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process. automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade cycle. we provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients' trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several years. we maintained over 500 investor client stp connections as of december 31, 2016. in addition, many of our broker-dealer clients use our application programming interfaces ( api ) services for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services to improve efficiency and reduce errors in processing. sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our trading platform and information and post-trade services by our 15 existing clients. their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use our system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings, and participation in industry co nferences and media engagement, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish bondticker tm as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yi eld tables. a similar process also exists for our trax post-trade business, employing both direct and indirect sales methods. competition the industry that we participate in is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face four main areas of competition: telephone and direct electronic communications we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone, e-mail or instant messaging between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning or otherwise communicating via e-mail or instant messaging with bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence, including several that have only commenced, or announced an intention to launch, operations in the last twelve months. among others, bloomberg and tradeweb operate multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platforms for both fixed-income securities and derivatives. the new york stock exchange, a subsidiary of intercontinental exchange ( ice ), also offers exchange-style trading for corporate bonds. in addition, some broker-dealers and institutional investors operate, or have invested in, proprietary electronic trading systems or information networks that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities, including bloomberg and ice, currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform. other approved regulatory mechanisms we compete with other approved regulatory mechanisms in europe that have the fca's arm designation and provide post-trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services, including the london stock exchange's unavista. competitors, including companies in which some of our clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, some of our clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform; liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers and, to a growing extent, by other institutional investors; magnitude and frequency of price improvement; enhancing the quality and speed of execution; compliance benefits; total transaction costs; technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and range of products, protocols and services offered. we believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors. 16 our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building api's with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services. furthermore, a significant number of our institutional investor firms have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor firms on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry. technology the design and quality of our technology products are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. this offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. we have designed our application with an easy-to-use, windows-based interface. our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we have been issued 13 patents covering our most significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology. the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights. we have obtained u.s. federal registration of the marketaxess name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. in addition, we have obtained u.s. federal registration for the marks autospotting , frontpage , actives , dealeraxess , trax , trade on , liquiditybridge , bondticker and associated designs and have a number of other registered trademarks and service marks. open trading tm , axess all tm , openaxess tm , private axes tm and marketaxess bid-ask spread index (basi) tm are trademarks we use, but they have not been registered. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. as a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the u.s. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer and regulated venue subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. 17 regul ation of the u.s. securities industry and broker-dealers in the u.s., the sec is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. one of our u.s. subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation, is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer and an alternative trading system operator. it is also a member of finra and registered with the municipal securities rulemaking board, self-regulatory organizations that regulate broker-dealers in the u.s. in addition, marketaxess corporation is a member of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protection for clients' accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer. additionally, marketaxess corporation is registered with certain states and the district of columbia as a broker-dealer. the individual states and the district of columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective blue sky laws, rules and regulations. marketaxess sef corporation, our wholly-owned u.s. subsidiary, operates as a sef for the trading of certain credit derivatives subject to the cftc's jurisdiction, including certain index swaps subject to the cftc's made available for trade' determination that are required to be executed on a sef or regulated exchange. the sec has not yet finalized its rules for security-based sefs, nor has it published a timetable for the finalization and implementation of such rules. various rules promulgated since the financial crisis could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. for example, while the volcker rule does not apply directly to us, the volcker rule bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. in addition, enhanced leverage ratios applicable to large banking organizations in the u.s. and europe require such organizations to strengthen their balance sheets and may limit their ability or willingness to make markets on our trading platform. we cannot predict the extent to which these rules or any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. regulation of the non-u.s. securities industries and investment service providers the securities industry and financial markets in the u.k., the eu and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. our principal regulator in the u.k. is the fca. marketaxess europe limited is registered as a multilateral trading facility ( mtf ) with the fca and is also a registered platform in switzerland, hong kong and singapore. xtrakter is registered as an approved reporting mechanism with the fca and also has recognized status in france, the netherlands and belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators. the securities industry in the member states of the eu is regulated by agencies in each member state. eu measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services, which, in general, is valid throughout the eu. as an fca approved mtf, marketaxess europe limited receives the benefit of this authorization. in june 2016, the u.k. voted in an advisory referendum to leave the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). the u.k. government has not yet delivered an official notice of withdrawal; however, depending on the terms negotiated between e.u. member states and the u.k. following brexit, our u.k. subsidiaries may not be able to rely on the existence of a passporting regime that allows immediate access to the single e.u. market. as a result, we may need to establish one or more new regulated subsidiaries in the e.u. in order to provide our trading platform and certain post-trade services to clients in the e.u. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe are developing new rules for the fixed-income markets. mifid ii and markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ) were approved in june 2014 and introduce changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. while some of the technical advice underpinning mifid ii have not yet been finalized, mifid ii will have a significant impact in these areas, as well as on corporate governance and investor protection. mifid ii and mifir are expected to take effect in january 2018. the final rules may have an adverse effect on our operations or our ability to provide our electronic trading platform in a manner that can successfully compete against other types of regulated and non-regulated venues for the fixed-income trading needs of our clients. in addition, mifid ii is expected to cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. while we generally believe the net impact of the rules and regulations will be positive for our businesses, unintended consequences of the rules and regulations may adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. our canadian subsidiary, marketaxess canada company, is registered as an alternative trading system dealer under the securities act of ontario and is a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada. our brazilian subsidiary, marketaxess platforma de negociacao ltda., is authorized to provide our platform in brazil under the jurisdiction of the securities 18 and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. we also provide our platform in other countries pursuant to exemptions fro m registration under the laws of such countries. employees as of december 31, 2016, we had 383 employees, 230 of whom were based in the u.s. and 153 of whom were based outside of the u.s., principally in the u.k. none of our employees is represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information marketaxess was incorporated in delaware in april 2000. our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k; our quarterly reports on form 10-q; our current reports on form 8-k; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 299 park avenue new york, ny 10171 attn: investor relations our board of directors has standing audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance, risk, mergers and acquisitions and investment committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors and our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of the committee charters and the corporate governance guidelines are also posted on our website. you may read and copy any document we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the public reference room. the sec maintains an internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the company) file electronically with the sec. the sec's internet website is www.sec.gov. 19 item 1a. risk factors. risks related to our business global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds, exchange traded funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest rates, the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities and foreign currency exchange rates; the effect of federal reserve board monetary policy, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements and political impasses; credit availability and other liquidity concerns; concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and legislative and regulatory changes, including changes to financial industry regulations and tax laws. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume in the past and may experience similar decreases in trading volume in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. our market share of the fixed-income trading markets is also impacted by a variety of other factors, including the amount of new issuances of corporate debt, the level of bond fund inflows or outflows, the percentage of volumes comprised of rule 144a transactions, the percentage of volumes comprised of larger trades known as block trades' and whether the prevalent market environment is an offer wanted or bid wanted environment. a decline in trading volumes on our platform or in our platform's market share for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 we face sub stantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-dealer trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, and information services or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations also include the sale of information and analytical tools under our bondticker tm and trax brands and post-trade services, such as pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory reporting for the european markets. there is a high degree of competition in data, pricing and transaction reporting products and services and such businesses may become more competitive in the future as new competitors emerge. our information products and post-trade and services lines may be threatened by new regulations, market trends or technologies that reduce their value. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. we cannot assure you that the growth of electronic means of trading securities that we have experienced in recent years will continue. our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 52.4% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by an adverse change in the regions in which we operate. historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the u.s. and the u.k. while we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas. accordingly, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these two countries, such as 21 brexit. moreover, due to the concentration of our operations in these areas, such operations are less diversified and, accordingly, are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. if we are una ble to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. the u.k. electorate voted in favor of a u.k. exit from the e.u. in a referendum, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the u.k. has voted in an advisory referendum to leave the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). the referendum was non-binding; however, as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the u.k. withdrawal from the e.u. under the process for withdrawing from the e.u. contemplated in the treaty on european union, the u.k. will remain a member state until a withdrawal agreement is entered into or, if later (and no extension is agreed), two years following notification of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the e.u. the effects of brexit on us will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets including for financial services either during a transitional period or more permanently. although the u.k. government has not yet delivered an official notice of withdrawal, brexit is expected to significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in the u.k., and could have a material impact on its economy and the future growth of its various industries, including the financial services industry in which we operate. we conduct business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries. depending on the terms of brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges. for instance, our u.k. subsidiaries may not be able to rely on the existence of a passporting regime that allows immediate access to the single e.u. market. if this occurred, we may need to establish one or more new regulated subsidiaries in the e.u. in order to provide our trading platform and certain post-trade services to clients in the e.u. although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. changes to u.k. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of brexit. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. any such new laws and regulations in the u.k. may be difficult and/or costly to implement. although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of an exit of the u.k. from the e.u., any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, brexit may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject. because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on our platform on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; respond effectively to the loss of any of our significant broker-dealer or institutional investor clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients); diversify our sources of revenues; maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 22 we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate; past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of futur e commissions. from time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, under certain of our fee plans, our fees are designated in basis points in yield (and, as a result, are subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded) or our fees vary based on trade size or maturity. we anticipate that our average fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. we are exposed to risks in connection with certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary . in connection with our anonymous open trading protocols, we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit and performance risks in our role as matched principal trading counterparty to our clients executing open trading trades on our platform, including the risk that counterparties that owe us money or securities will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. in connection with open trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. in the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise that involve substantial risks of liability. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, the settlement of the trade, or claims that we resolved an error trade dispute incorrectly or that a system malfunction or delay caused monetary loss to a client. in addition, because of the ease and speed with which trades can be executed on our electronic platform, clients can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade instructions or by entering trade orders inaccurately. a large number of significant error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade on our electronic platform although we maintain error trade policies designed to protect our open trading participants and enable us to manage the risks attendant in acting as a matched principal counterparty, depending on the cause, number and value of the trades that are the subject of an alleged error or dispute, such trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are required to hold a securities position as a result of an error, there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. in connection with the recent growth of our open trading protocols, we have implemented additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure. there can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. 23 we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and many of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers' primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. in the u.s., the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities. if bank-affiliated entities reduce their trading activity and that activity is not replaced by other market participants, the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries over the past several years. moreover, several of our large broker-dealer clients have reduced their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income in recent years. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the volume of trading on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. one institutional investor client accounted for approximately 14.2%, 15.3%, and 14.0% of trading volumes during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. based on information filed with the sec by this institutional investor client, as of december 31, 2016, investment funds managed by this institutional investor client beneficially owned approximately 7.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, primarily through passive index and etf funds. the obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of any major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our pricing policies; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume or our market share for our key products; 24 technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and new regulations that limit or affect how our electronic trading platform can operate or which increase our regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. for example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. however, we cannot assure you that these new features and versions will become or remain successful. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets, such as our recent entry into the municipal bond market. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities, including among other things, our entrance into the municipal bond market, will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients' needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or 25 adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing ma rket conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on third-party vendors for our bond reference databases and the clearing and settlement of our open trading transactions. disruptions in the services provided by those third-parties to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products or provide services that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our third-party service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and use of technology. our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. 26 we cannot assure you that we, or our third-party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power, internet or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods, widespread health emergencies or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients' trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. in these circumstances, if we were unable to execute our disaster recovery plans, or our redundant systems and disaster recovery plans proved insufficient for the particular situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. it is also a risk that we will not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all such system problems. our disaster recovery plans are heavily reliant on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so any disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, our business could suffer a material adverse effect. our electronic trading platform involves the processing, storage and transmission of a very large number of transactions and data (including confidential client information). the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. cyber attacks on our systems could expose us to a risk of misappropriation of this information, leading to litigation, reputational harm and possible liability. despite the defensive measures we have taken, these threats may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as outsource or infrastructure- 27 support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to wh om we have granted access to our computer systems. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential inf ormation, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techni ques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. we also face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints of any of the third party service providers that facilitate our business activities, including clients, clearing agents and network or data providers. such parties could also be the source of a cyber attack on or breach of our operational systems, data or infrastructure. there have been an increasing number of malicious cyber incidents in recent years in various industries, including ours. any such cyber incident involving our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties important to our businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a cyber attack or security breach on our system or that of a third-party service provider could manifest in different ways and could lead to any number of harmful consequences, including but not limited to: misappropriation of financial assets, intellectual property or sensitive information belonging to us, our clients or our third-party service providers; corruption of data or causing operational disruption through computer viruses or phishing; and denial of service attacks to prevent users from accessing our platform. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any stolen financial assets or misappropriated confidential information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have been issued 13 patents covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the 28 manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management's attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments may involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product; and exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. 29 the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significan t acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, includ ing options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. our investments in expanding our information and post-trade services businesses may not produce substantial revenue or profit. with respect to our information and post-trade services businesses, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service. even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or sell only small amounts of these products or services. consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion and development initiatives, the up-front costs associated with them may exceed the related revenue and reduce our working capital and income. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey's employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and other key personnel. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey's services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss or interruption, could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has become increasingly competitive as an increasing number of existing and new competitors focus on the electronic trading of credit products. many of these competitive ventures are interested in hiring our experienced technology personnel and our qualified sales staff. additionally, highly innovative technology firms may offer attractive employment opportunities to our technology personnel. many of these firms have greater resources than we have and are able to offer more lucrative compensation packages. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 we operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations. these regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. the sec, finra, the cftc and other agencies extensively regulate the united states financial services industry, including most of our operations in the united states. much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the fca in the united kingdom, the swiss financial market supervisory authority in switzerland, the monetary authority of singapore, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and provincial regulators in canada, and the securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. in addition, xtrakter is registered as an arm with the fca and has recognized status in france, the netherlands and belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer and other licensed subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. certain of our regulated subsidiaries, including our registered broker-dealer and mtf, are subject to u.s. or foreign regulations which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary's principal regulator. marketaxess sef corporation is registered with the cftc as a sef and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. our authority to operate our platform in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. our systems and procedures may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. in addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. in addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. the implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. for a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see item 1. business government regulation. some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. these regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of marketaxess. as a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. 31 our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the united states congress, in state legislatures and by foreign governments. the government agencies that regulate us continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives, may adopt new or revised laws and regulations and have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. in light of recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. we are unable to predict which of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and that of our clients are also affected by the policies adopted by the federal reserve and international central banking authorities, which may affect the credit quality of our customers or increase the cost for our customers to trade the instruments on our platform. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may directly impact our cost of funds for capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. in addition, regulatory bodies in europe are developing new rules for the fixed-income markets. mifid ii and mifir were approved in june 2014 and introduce changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. while some of the technical advice underpinning mifid ii have not yet been finalized, mifid ii will have a significant impact in these areas, as well as on corporate governance and investor protection. mifid ii and mifir are expected to take effect in january 2018 and may have an adverse effect on our operations or our ability to provide our electronic trading platform in a manner that can successfully compete against other types of regulated and non-regulated venues for the fixed-income trading needs of our clients. in addition, mifid ii is expected to cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes will impact our european business and operations, but they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development and growth of impacted markets to become impractical. for example, the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which adversely affects our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. other regulatory initiatives include basel iii, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and liquidity in most of the world's major economies by 2019. the implementation of these rules could restrict the ability of our large bank and broker-dealer customers to raise additional capital and liquidity. as a result, their businesses could be adversely affected, which might cause them to trade less on our platform. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. currently, our central limit order book trading service for single-name credit derivatives and our mid-x matching service for corporate bonds are regulated as alternative trading systems subject to regulation ats. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe, latin america and asia and we may further expand our operations throughout these and other regions. we have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the increasing globalization of our platform and services. however, there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of the fca in the u.k. and foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. for example, regulatory bodies in europe have approved the final texts of mifid ii and mifir, which are expected to take effect in january 2018. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our european business and operations, but they may cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure. we cannot predict what future actions the u.s., u.k. and other regulatory bodies might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e . u . laws to replace or replicate. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients' trading activities on our platform. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. extensive regulation of our businesses results in ongoing exposure to potential significant costs and penalties. our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. many of these regulators, including u.s. and non-u.s. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the u.s., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. self-regulatory organizations such as finra and the national futures association ( nfa ), along with statutory bodies such as the sec, the cftc, and the fca, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the sec, the cftc, finra, the nfa, state securities commissions and state attorneys general in the u.s., and the fca in the u.k. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. this trend toward a heightened regulatory and enforcement environment can be expected to continue for the foreseeable future, and this environment may create uncertainty. accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. 33 we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail. to manage the risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, legal, regulatory, operational and market risks. our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. if our risk-management policies and efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed poli cies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory, operational and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in addition, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or se rvice, and the period before the product or service is successfully developed, introduced and adopted may extend over many months or years. even after incurring these costs, our clients may determine that they do not need or prefer the product or service. we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. misconduct or error by employees could include engaging in improperly using our confidential information or the confidential information of our clients or engaging in improper or unauthorized activities or transactions. over the past few years, there have been several high-profile cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees of financial services firms. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims against us regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, resolution of trade error claims, system failures, mismanagement or even fraud. we may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit agreement are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. the growth of our open trading protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. in addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us. all or part of any debt financing would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co., which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $100.0 million. subject to satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the borrowing capacity of the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; create or incur liens; change our line of business; sell or transfer assets; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments; consummate a merger or consolidation; enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. 35 we are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated adjusted ebitda level. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to com ply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid inter est under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit ext ensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries, including the u.s. and the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in u.s. dollars, british pounds sterling and euros. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our net investment in our u.k. subsidiaries and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management's attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in 36 v olatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely t he market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may decrease or cease paying dividends on our common stock in the future. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future or, if we continue paying dividends, that such dividends will be paid at the rate at which they were paid in prior periods. if we were to decrease the dividend rate or cease paying dividends, investors may need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the primary or only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquirer to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions.risk factors. item 1. business. marketaxess holdings inc. (the company or marketaxess ) operates a leading electronic trading platform that enables fixed-income market participants to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments using our patented trading technology. over 1,500 institutional investor and broker-dealer firms are active users of our trading platform, accessing global liquidity in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, european bonds, u.s. agency bonds, municipal bonds, leveraged loans, credit default swaps and other fixed-income securities. through our open trading protocols, we execute bond trades between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in an all-to-all anonymous trading environment in which marketaxess acts as the matched principal counterparty. we also offer a number of trading-related products and services, including: composite+ pricing and other market data products to assist clients with trading decisions; auto-execution and other execution services for clients requiring specialized workflow solutions; connectivity solutions that facilitate straight-through processing; and technology services to optimize trading environments. through our trax division, we also offer a range of pre- and post-trade services, including trade matching, trade publication, regulatory transaction reporting and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income and other products. our platform's innovative technology solutions are designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform and create a menu of solutions to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics. our traditional request-for-quote ( rfq ) model allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. our open trading protocols complement our rfq model by increasing the number of potential counterparties and improving liquidity by allowing all participants to interact anonymously in an all-to-all trading environment. clients can use our auto-execution technology with both our traditional rfq and open trading protocols, thereby using rules-based execution to connect to diverse sources of liquidity while reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. our platform also provides our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for fixed-income securities, which makes it difficult to match buyers and sellers for particular issues. many market participants also use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading these securities. while these electronic communication methods have addressed some of the limitations associated with traditional bond trading methods, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. our platform's functionality addresses many of the remaining shortcomings that result from trading bonds over the telephone or via e-mail. our services relating to trade execution range from providing a suite of trading protocols designed to fit the trading needs of our clients to innovative new trading technologies, such as auto-execution and the use of artificial intelligence, to assist our clients' trading decisions. trading protocols include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. auto-execution allows clients to set eligibility criteria for their orders and our system will determine whether or not to execute a trade in accordance with the pre-defined parameters. once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. 4 we are not a party to any of the disclosed trades that occur on our platform between institutional inv estor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact directly with each other. however, in connection with our open tradin g protocols, we execute bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades which are then settled thr ough a third-party clearing broker. in 2018 , 22.0 % of all marketaxess platform volume was executed via open trading protocols, up from 15 . 9 % in 201 7 . in recent years, corporate bond debt owned by institutional investors has increased, while the available base of capital for dealer market making has declined. partly as a result of these trends, overall secondary turnover as a percentage of corporate debt outstanding has been falling, causing all market participants to look for new electronic trading solutions to improve liquidity and turnover. we have responded with a series of open trading protocols designed to allow our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. during 2018, almost 1,000 participating client firms provided liquidity via our open trading solutions and we completed approximately 1.1 million open trading trades, an increase of 73.2% compared to 2017. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97.7% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. corporate bonds and approximately 83.6% of the underwriting of newly issued european corporate bonds in 2018. although institutional investors, specialist market-making firms, proprietary trading firms and other non-traditional liquidity providers have increasingly provided liquidity on our platform through open trading tm , we believe these broker-dealers still represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. in addition to trading fixed-income securities by traditional means, including the telephone and e-mail, our broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems and other trading platforms, as well as our electronic trading platform. in 2018, our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 18.1% of the total estimated u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, as reported by the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ). trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter ( otc ) secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities in the u.s., including trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, as well as inter-dealer and retail trading. all broker-dealers that are finra member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). through our trax brand, we provide trade matching and regulatory reporting services for european investment firms and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income products. in response to the pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from the recast markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ii ) in europe, trax has been authorized by the uk financial conduct authority ( fca ) as an approved publication arrangement ( apa ) and an approved reporting mechanism ( arm ). in addition to its apa and arm reporting services, trax has developed a comprehensive suite of value-add solutions for mifid ii, including pre-trade transparency services, systematic internaliser ( si ) determination and monitoring, best execution reporting, commodity position reporting, data quality analysis and peer benchmarking. in 2018, 89.7% of our revenues were derived from commissions for trades executed on our platform and distribution fees that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. we also derive revenues from information services, post-trade services and other income. our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising, clearing costs and other general and administrative expenses. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of september 30, 2018, the most recent date available, there were approximately $42.4 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $9.2 trillion principal amount of u.s. corporate bonds, according to sifma. the estimated average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds, as measured by trace, was $28.6 billion in 2018. primary dealer holdings of u.s. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield) as reported by the federal reserve bank of new york were $5.4 billion as of december 31, 2018. this represents less than one day of trading volume as measured by trace. 5 prior to regulatory reforms , such as basel iii and regulations under the dodd frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), dealer balance sheets were relatively elastic, so dealers were able to facilitate trading in most f ixed-income products without dramatic price moves. the regulatory reforms enacted after the global financial crisis resulted in greater capital and liquidity requirements for dealers, which impacted market liquidity and diminished risk appetite by market i ntermediaries. the volcker rule, which limits proprietary trading by banks, has also had an impact on dealer inventories and the ability of dealers to act as market-makers. as a result, we believe market participants require different solutions to increase liquidity and we have responded with our open trading protocols, designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform by allowing our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all- to-all trading environment. markets for securities traded on our platform the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 or better by moody's investor service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). we use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market. finra includes over 65,000 unique securities in the list of trace-eligible bonds, representing the majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds. according to sifma, u.s. high-grade corporate bond debt outstanding has increased approximately 19.6% from $7.7 trillion at year-end 2013 to $9.2 trillion at september 30, 2018. over the last five years, high-grade corporate bond issuance was over $1 trillion each year, exceeding pre-financial crisis levels. notwithstanding the growth in the total amount of debt outstanding, turnover (which is the total amount traded as a percentage of the amount outstanding for the bonds that traded) is below pre-credit crisis levels. the trading volume of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by trace increased to approximately $5.1 trillion for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $4.9 trillion and $4.6 trillion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we believe that the low level of turnover is an indicator of liquidity challenges in the credit markets. u.s. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment-grade by one agency but investment-grade by the other . the total annual amount of high-yield corporate bond issuance as reported by sifma decreased by 39.1% to $173.0 billion in 2018 from $284.9 billion in 2017. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by trace for the year ended december 31, 2018 was approximately $8.0 billion compared to $8.2 billion and $8.5 billion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar, euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. the average daily trading volume of emerging markets debt, as reported by the emerging markets trade association for the nine months ended september 30, 2018, the most recent date available, was $20.3 billion compared to $19.9 billion and $20.7 billion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. european corporate bond market the european corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency; bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling intended to be distributed to european investors, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market; 6 bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entit ies that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the world bank), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. we believe that the european corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. the total amount of euro denominated high-grade and high-yield bonds yearly issuance as reported by international capital markets association decreased by 12.0% to $393.6 billion in 2018 from $447.4 billion in 2017. the average daily trading volume of european corporate bonds as estimated by trax for the year ended december 31, 2018 was approximately $9.2 billion compared to $8.7 billion and $8.2 billion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. u.s. agency bond market we define the u.s. agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored enterprise. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the federal national mortgage association and federal home loan mortgage corporation. the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $1.9 trillion as of september 30, 2018 as reported by sifma. the average daily trading volume of u.s. agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by trace was $3.6 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to $3.8 billion and $5.1 billion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. u.s. municipal bond market municipal bonds are debt securities issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities in the u.s. to fund day-to-day obligations and to finance a wide variety of public projects, such as highways or water systems. depending on the type of financing, payments of the principal and interest on a municipal bond may come from general revenues of the municipal issuer, specific tax receipts, revenues generated from a public project, or payments from private entities or from a combination of sources. in addition to being issued for many different purposes, municipal securities are also issued in many different forms, such as fixed rate, zero coupon or variable rate bonds. the interest paid on municipal securities is typically exempt from federal income taxation and may be exempt from state income and other taxes as well. as of december 31, 2018, there were over 1.5 million different municipal bonds outstanding, in the total aggregate principal amount of more than $3.8 trillion. in 2018, the average daily trading volume of municipal bonds, excluding variable rate demand notes, as measured by the municipal securities rulemaking board ( msrb ) was $6.0 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to $5.5 billion and $7.4 billion for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. credit derivative market credit derivatives are contracts that allow market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations without ownership of the underlying security. among the most significant requirements of the derivatives section of the dodd-frank act are mandatory clearing of certain derivatives transactions ( swaps ) through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or swap execution facilities ( sefs ), in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. we operate a swap execution facility pursuant to the u.s. commodity futures trading commission's ( cftc ) rules and we list certain credit derivatives for trading by u.s. persons and other participants on our sef. the sec has not yet finalized its rules for security-based sefs that would govern the execution of single-name credit derivatives. post-trade reporting, publishing and matching services in europe, all firms regulated as investment firms under mifid ii are required to submit complete and accurate details of qualifying transactions to their national regulator no later than the close of the working day following the date of the transaction. this process is known as transaction reporting. pursuant to the associated markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ), the number of fields and the complexity of the information that must be reported to regulators was significantly enhanced. firms may either report directly to the regulator or use an entity that is licensed as an arm. in addition, under mifir, all regulated investment firms are required to comply with pre- and post-trade transparency requirements pursuant to which quotes and trades must be made public subject to a system of waivers and deferrals. firms are required to utilize an apa to comply with the post-trade transparency requirement. trade matching enables counterparties to agree on the terms of a trade shortly after execution, reducing the risk of trade errors and fails during settlement. 7 our competitive strengths we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of over 1,500 active institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients and their ability to use our open trading protocols to help manage their risk, source liquidity, and facilitate transactions on behalf of their clients. as shown in the chart below, our total bond trading volume increased from $767.0 billion in 2014 to $1.7 trillion in 2018. 8 our adjusted estimated share of u.s. high-grade and high-yield corporate bond volume from 201 4 to 2018 is shown in the chart below: * we adjusted the reported u.s. high-grade trace volumes to eliminate the increased reporting of affiliate back-to-back trades by certain broker-dealers that occurred from april 2014 through october 2015 because we believe that the trace volume, as adjusted by us, provide a more accurate comparison to prior period reporting. execution benefits to clients benefits to both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. we offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including: transparent pricing on a range of securities. the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from our broker-dealer clients' inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools available on our bondticker service ( including spread-to-treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from all of our participating broker-dealer clients during the trade process on any debt security in our database of corporate bonds. institutional investors and broker-dealer clients can search bonds in inventory based on combinations of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. through our open trading protocols, participants may also elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our electronic trading platform in order to create broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood that the request results in a trade. we believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs. expanded liquidity pool. in the post-financial crisis years, liquidity has remained a persistent concern for market participants as regulators raised banks' capital requirements and adopted other measures that prompted many dealers to reduce market-making activities even as the buy side's bond holdings have grown rapidly. in this environment, open trading, our fully electronic, all-to-all trading environment, has emerged as one solution to the post-crisis liquidity problem. as a result, the liquidity options for open trading participants are broader and more diverse compared to the traditional model of bilateral trading with a limited set of dealer counterparties. the expanded pool of liquidity providers includes investment managers, global dealers, regional dealers and specialist market-making and proprietary trading firms. during 2018, almost 1,000 unique liquidity providers participated in open trading. open trading improves the ability of both dealers and institutional investors to find natural and opportunistic matches, move orders more efficiently, and achieve significant increases in execution quality and price improvement. 9 greater trading accuracy. our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients , including real-time trade details, stp, account allocations, automated audit trails and trade detail matching . these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple op portunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platform assists our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from manual entry of information into different systems. efficient risk monitoring and compliance. institutional investors, broker-dealers and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information, including time, price and spread-to-treasury, is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. this data represents a valuable source of information for our clients' compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing and transaction cost analysis that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. benefits to institutional investor clients we believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: competitive prices. by enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. for typical marketaxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-treasury responses is approximately 13 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). as an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $720. we believe our open trading protocols enhance our institutional investor clients' ability to obtain a competitive price by allowing all of our open trading participants to interact in an all-to-all trading environment, thereby increasing the potential sources of liquidity for each participant, as well as the likelihood of receiving a competitive price response. improved cost efficiency. we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. our auto-execution technology uses rules-based execution logic to reduce trading inefficiencies and human errors while allowing traders to focus on higher-value trades. in addition, our bondticker service eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communications to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. limited information leakage. our open trading protocols allow our institutional investor clients to maintain their anonymity from trade initiation through to settlement without limiting their number of potential trading counterparties. in addition, our private axes protocol allows participants to negotiate bilaterally on an anonymous basis to minimize information leakage when transacting in larger trade sizes. benefits to broker-dealer clients we also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including: greater sales efficiency. we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. more efficient inventory management. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. broker-dealers are also increasingly turning toward open trading as a new source of liquidity as they manage their risk exposure. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover by using our platform, which may limit credit exposure. 10 growing, comprehensive international offering and client base our platform provides global fixed-income market participants with trading functionality across global hard currency and local currency markets, connecting clients in over 50 countries to local and global dealers. marketaxess has over 740 client firms located outside the u.s. that access our platform through our regulated venues in europe, asia and latin america. our open trading functionality allows international clients to access cross-border liquidity with minimal ramp-up time or regulatory hurdles. the marketaxess emerging markets trading platform also offers the most comprehensive offering for local currency bond trading across the latin america, central &amp; eastern europe, middle east and africa ( ceemea ), and asia-pacific ( apac ) regions. our platform provides clients with the ability to trade local currency debt denominated in over 25 local currencies with over 100 emerging market dealers. full trading cycle service offerings in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services throughout the trading cycle. in the pre-trade period, our platform assists our participants by providing them with value-added services, such as real-time and historical trade price information, liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts. following the execution of a trade, our platform supports all of the essential tools and functionalities to enable our participants to realize the full benefits of electronic trading and demonstrate best execution, including real-time trade details, stp, account allocations, automated audit trails, regulatory trade reporting, trade detail matching, and transaction cost analysis. robust, scalable technology we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. the members of our management team average more than 20 years of experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods and improve liquidity. in recent years, marketaxess has received industry recognition from key independent publications for its innovations and contributions to the fixed-income market. for example, in 2018, open trading won the waters technology buy-side technology award for the best buy-side execution venue, and composite+ won the risk market technology award for the electronic trading support product of the year and the waters technology american financial technology award for the best artificial intelligence (ai) technology initiative. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds; the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades; bondticker , our information services product, combining trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools; bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously; the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for credit derivative indices; public market lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community; and axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed-income market. 11 independence we believe the current regulatory environment creates competitive advantages for independent companies like us that are less prone to conflicts of interest. as an independent company, we are free to make business and trading protocol decisions with the best interests of both our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in mind. we are also able to attract industry leaders with valuable skills and insights to our independent board of directors. our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: broaden our client base in our existing markets and increase penetration with existing clients we intend to use our broad network of over 1,500 active institutional investor and broker-dealer participants to drive more clients to our leading electronic fixed-income trading platform. the number of active participants on our platform has increased by over 90% since 2013. we believe that the continued expansion of our client base will lead to even further increases in the liquidity available on our platform. we expect that the increased liquidity on our platform and our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings will also help us deepen our market share with our existing clients across our product suite. the number of clients trading three or more products on our platform has increased by 67.0% from 509 in 2014 to 850 in 2018. last, we will seek to increase our international presence by increasing the number of firms located outside the u.s. that access our platform through our venues in europe, asia and latin america, increasing the number of local currencies available for trading on our platform; and, subject to regulatory requirements, increasing the number of countries in which we can offer our platform. enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platform by leveraging our client network and open trading protocols we aim to increase the secondary market liquidity on our trading platform by deploying innovative technology solutions designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our platform and to address different trade sizes, bond liquidity characteristics and trading preferences. our open trading protocols exponentially increase the potential trading counterparties by allowing broker-dealers and institutional investors to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. during 2018, our clients executed approximately 1.1 million trades using our open trading solutions, representing 22.0% of the total trading volume on our platform. in recent years, we have also significantly increased the number of participants that provide bond prices to our platform via an algorithm, which has helped increase the number of price responses on our platform by 142.1% from 2015 to 2018. we intend to continue to improve the liquidity of bonds on our platform by increasing the number of connections we have with algorithmic trading firms. we also believe that the combination of open trading and our vast client network provides the basis for marketaxess to deliver meaningful cross-border liquidity or enter into new markets where liquidity is scarcer, such as municipal bonds. continue to develop innovative next-generation technologies that will allow our clients to further automate and improve the performance of their trading desks we believe that the increased adoption of next-generation trading technologies by both dealer and investor clients will create improved liquidity, enhanced trading efficiencies and the ability to identify trends within the bond market. in recent years, we have launched a number of innovative technologies that rely on machine-learning, automation and algorithms that are designed to improve the trading decisions and workflows of our clients, while reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. for example, clients can use our rules-based auto-execution technology with both our traditional rfq protocol and open trading to automatically execute trades meeting defined parameters with diverse sources of liquidity. our composite+ pricing algorithm uses machine-learning to generate near real-time prices for over 25,000 corporate bonds based on a variety of data inputs, and our like bonds product uses a data-driven methodology to help clients find liquid, tradable alternatives to illiquid bonds. we intend to continue to invest in and develop advanced technologies such as these that will make marketaxess an increasingly valuable part of our clients' trading decisions and workflows. 12 expand and strengthen our trade-related service , data and analytical offerings throughout the trading cycle we plan to expand and strengthen our existing service, data and analytical offerings throughout the trading cycle so that marketaxess is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. in the pre-trade period, we intend to continue to enhance the value of our information and analytical offerings, including the content and capabilities of bondticker , axess all and composite+. we plan to enhance and expand the usage of liquiditybridge , our execution management system (ems) service that allows users to manage and facilitate the complex liquidity flows across multiple trading platforms, including the marketaxess system. we also intend to augment our post-trade matching and regulatory reporting services provided by our trax brand in europe that enable our clients to comply with their heightened obligations pursuant to mifid ii. as the use of our pre- and post-trade services and products grow, we believe that marketaxess will become further entrenched as a value-added resource to our clients at each stage of the trading cycle, which we believe will further increase the attractiveness and use of our trading platform. pursue select acquisitions and strategic alliances we continually evaluate opportunities to supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform and existing trade-related services to our clients. in recent years, we entered into, and expanded, a strategic alliance with blackrock, inc. ( blackrock ) to combine blackrock's order flow with our open trading solution to improve the range of trading connections available to global credit market participants. key products and services marketaxess offers the following key products and services to its clients: key products traded on our platform u.s. high-grade corporate bonds our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. over 100 broker-dealers utilize our platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by underwriting volume of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in 2018. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97.7% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in 2018. more than 950 active domestic and foreign institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our 2018 trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market was $928.2 billion. emerging markets bonds over 100 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 900 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2018 were mexico, brazil, argentina, south africa and turkey. in 2018, our clients were able to trade corporate and sovereign debt denominated in over 25 local market currencies on our platform. our 2018 trading volume in the emerging market bond market was $378.3 billion. u.s. crossover and high-yield bonds over 100 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 850 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. we also offer leveraged loan trading for our clients that trade high-yield bonds. our 2018 trading volume in the high-yield bond market was $177.6 billion. eurobonds we offer secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also offer our clients the ability to trade in other european high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in british pounds sterling, floating rate notes, european government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. we offered the first platform in europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. in the eurobond credit market, defined as including european high-grade, high-yield and government bonds, approximately 50 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 19 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2018 european corporate new-issue underwriting volume. more than 450 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade european bonds. our 2018 trading volume in the eurobond bond market was $166.6 billion. 13 u.s. agency bonds over 40 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 300 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. agency bonds. trading in u.s. agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. our 2018 trading volume in the u.s. agency bond market was $49.1 billion. municipal bonds over 70 broker-dealer clients and over 300 institutional investor clients use our platform to trade municipal bonds. we offer trading for both taxable and non-taxable municipal bonds. our 2018 trading volume in the u.s. municipal bond market was $5.9 billion. credit derivatives we offer a range of functionality for electronic trading of cftc-regulated credit derivatives instruments on our sef in compliance with the cftc's requirements. this includes an rfq system that allows participants to send anonymous or disclosed rfqs, as well as an order book, which enables market participants to trade anonymously with all other market participants. approximately 40 active market participants use our sef to trade credit derivative indices and credit options. our 2018 credit derivatives trading volume was $93.4 billion. open trading functionality we offer a series of open trading protocols that allows our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. our market list functionality provides our open trading participants with the ability to display live requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a completed trade. public axes is an order book-style price discovery process that gives clients the ability to view anonymous or disclosed indications of interest from the inventory on our platform. through the aggregated indication of interest inventory, clients can search for bonds of interest and engage in electronic transactions. for block-sized trades, clients may use our private axes functionality, a protocol that allows participants to anonymously negotiate round lots (greater than $1.0 million) and block trades to minimize information leakage. we offer open trading protocols for all of our key trading products, including corporate, municipal and emerging market bonds. bond trades executed pursuant to any of our anonymous open trading protocol are conducted with marketaxess on a matched principal basis. post-trade reporting, publishing and matching services in europe, all firms regulated as investment firms under mifid ii are required to submit complete and accurate details of qualifying transactions to their national regulator no later than the close of the working day following the date of the transaction. this process is known as transaction reporting. pursuant to mifir, the number of fields and the complexity of the information that must be reported to regulators was significantly enhanced. firms may either report directly to the regulator or use an entity that is licensed as an arm , such as our trax arm, to validate and submit such reports . in the u.k., covered transactions are reported to the fca. in addition, under mifir, all regulated investment firms are required to comply with pre- and post-trade transparency requirements pursuant to which quotes and trades must be made public subject to a system of waivers and deferrals. firms are required to utilize an apa, such as our trax apa, to comply with the post trade transparency requirement and, although optional, many firms also utilize a third party provider, such as trax , to satisfy the pre trade transparency requirement. the trax transparency solution and the trax apa trade reporting solution are available through the trax insight platform, offering our clients a pre- and post-trade transparency solution, including apa trade reporting, quote publication, si determination and instrument liquidity classification. trax also offers a commodity position reporting service to assist firms in compliance with the commodity derivative position limit reporting requirements of mifid ii. trade matching enables counterparties to agree on the terms of a trade shortly after execution, reducing the risk of trade errors and fails during settlement. trax match is our near real-time post-trade matching and exception management tool which covers a broad range of securities, including fixed-income and equities. trax match helps our clients to mitigate their operational risk, improve stp and efficiency, address the complexities of mifid ii and the central securities depositories regulation and c onfirm all economic details within minutes of execution. trax has over 170 clients, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. the trax platform processed approximately 0.9 billion transactions in 2018. 14 information services in the pre-trade period, our platform assists our participants by providing them with value-added services, such as real time and historical trade price information, intelligent composite+ pricing, bondticker , liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services. our composite+ pricing algorithm generates near real-time prices for over 25,000 corporate bonds based on a variety of data inputs, including feeds from our trading platform, our trax post-trade service and trace. composite+ is used by clients as a pre-trade reference price to enhance trading outcomes and transaction cost analysis. composite+ can be combined with our auto-execution service, providing clients with an alert if a response is off market . through our trax brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by market participants and leveraging data from our post-trade services business. axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed-income market, is sourced from over 30,000 bond transactions processed daily by trax and includes aggregated volume and pricing for the most actively traded european fixed-income instruments. we also provide market participants with access to pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 40,000 unique fixed-income securities and securities reference data for approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities. bondticker provides real-time trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools in order to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. the data includes trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to-treasuries, for trades disseminated by the trace system. the data also includes actual execution prices and spread-to-treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. bondticker is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal in the u.s . bondticker allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct trace feeds and european pricing information provided by trax's end-of-day pricing feed. bondticker is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. bondticker is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via a browser-based interface. we also offer a set of tools that analyze credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. these tools utilize extensive amounts of market data and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats, depending on the business purpose. further, we provide extensive client-specific reports that measure trading performance on our electronic trading platform, including reports for the value of price discovery from multiple dealers, the cost savings generated from open trading participation and transaction cost analysis. liquiditybridge is our execution management system ( ems ) service that allows users to manage and facilitate the complex liquidity flows across multiple trading platforms, including the marketaxess system. liquiditybridge brings together real-time comparison and execution of bond prices across multiple sectors allowing users to rapidly react to trading opportunities. clients can also automatically generate custom pricing and distribute inventory to any destination. by using a library of standard adaptors, liquiditybridge can be deployed across a variety of fixed-income markets. 15 straight-through processing and apis straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. we provide our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable our clients to communicate electronically between their front- and back-office systems. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of our clients and allow them to integrate their order, portfolio management and accounting systems in real time. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients' trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several years. we maintained over 1,100 stp connections as of december 31, 2018. in addition, many of our clients use our application programming interface ( api ) services for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services to improve efficiency and reduce errors in processing. sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our trading platform and information and post-trade services by our existing clients. their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use our system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings, and participation in industry conferences and media engagement, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish bondticker as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. a similar process also exists for our trax post-trade business, employing both direct and indirect sales methods. competition the industry that we participate in is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face four main areas of competition: telephone and direct electronic communications we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone, e-mail or instant messaging between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning or otherwise communicating via e-mail or instant messaging with bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bond volumes are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence, including several that have only commenced operations in the last few years. among others, bloomberg and tradeweb operate multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platforms for both fixed-income securities and derivatives. several registered alternative trading systems ( atss ), including two atss recently acquired by intercontinental exchange, also offer exchange-style trading for corporate and municipal bonds, particularly for smaller trade sizes. in addition, some broker-dealers and institutional investors operate, or have invested in, proprietary electronic trading systems or information networks that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities, including bloomberg and intercontinental exchange, currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities. some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform. other approved regulatory mechanisms we compete with other approved regulatory mechanisms in europe that have the fca's arm and apa designations, such as the london stock exchange's unavista and tradeweb, to provide post-trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting and transparency services to european clients. 16 competitors, including companies in which some of our clients h ave invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, some of our clients have made, and may in the future c ontinue to make, investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform; liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers and, to a growing extent, by other institutional investors; magnitude and frequency of price improvement; enhancing the quality and speed of execution; compliance benefits; total transaction costs; technology capabilities, including the reliability, security, and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and range of products, protocols and services offered. we believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors. our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building api's with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to use our services; however, the contractual obligations of such clients are non-exclusive. see the risk factor captioned we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. furthermore, a significant number of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor clients on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry. technology the design and quality of our technology products are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. this offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients and a significant number of our institutional investor clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. we have designed our application with an easy-to-use, windows-based interface. our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we have been issued 13 patents covering our most significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology. 17 the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements inc lude third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, pr ocesses and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights. we have obtained u.s. federal registration of the marketaxess name, and our new logo is pending registration in the u.s. the same mark and logo have been registered or are pending registration in several foreign jurisdictions. in addition, we have obtained u.s. federal registration for the marks autospotting , frontpage , actives , dealeraxess , trax , trade on , liquiditybridge , bondticker , axess all , private axes , and associated designs and have a number of other registered trademarks and service marks. open trading tm , marketaxess bid-ask spread index (basi) tm , mid-hedging tm and now you're in the market tm are trademarks we use, but they have not been registered or are pending registration in the u.s. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. as a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the u.s. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer and regulated venue subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. regulation of the u.s. securities industry and broker-dealers in the u.s., the sec is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. one of our u.s. subsidiaries, marketaxess corporation, is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer and also has a sec-registered alternative trading system. marketaxess corporation is also a member of finra and registered with the msrb, self-regulatory organizations that regulate broker-dealers in the u.s. in addition, marketaxess corporation is a member of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protection for clients' accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer. additionally, marketaxess corporation is registered with certain states and the district of columbia as a broker-dealer. the individual states and the district of columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective blue sky laws, rules and regulations. marketaxess sef corporation, our wholly-owned u.s. subsidiary, operates as a sef for the trading of certain credit derivatives subject to the cftc's jurisdiction, including certain index swaps subject to the cftc's made available for trade' determination that are required to be executed on a sef or regulated exchange. various rules promulgated since the financial crisis have adversely affected our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, which could negatively impact the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. for example, while the volcker rule does not apply directly to us, the volcker rule bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. in addition, enhanced leverage ratios applicable to large banking organizations in the u.s. and europe require such organizations to strengthen their balance sheets and may limit their ability or willingness to make markets on our trading platform. we cannot predict the extent to which these rules or any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. regulation of the non-u.s. securities industries and investment service providers the securities industry and financial markets in the u.k., the european union ( e.u. ) and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. our principal regulator in the u.k. is the fca. marketaxess europe limited is authorized and regulated by the fca to operate a multilateral trading facility ( mtf ), and is also authorized as a foreign platform in switzerland, hong kong and singapore. marketaxess capital limited, which acts as matched principal counterparty for open trading transactions on the mtf, is authorized and regulated by the fca as an investment firm. xtrakter limited ( xtrakter ) is authorized and regulated as a data reporting service provider with the fca and the netherlands authority for the financial markets ( afm ), which allows it to operate as the trax arm and apa. 18 the securities industry in the member states of the e.u. is regulated by agencies in each member state. e.u. measures provide for the mutual recognition of national regulatory agencies and their supervision of investment firms, which makes it possible for the grant of a single authorization to be valid throughout the e.u. currently, both marketaxess europe limited and xtrakter provide regulated services to european firms outside of the u.k. in reliance on a cross-border services passport under mifid . howe ver, in march 2017, the u.k. notified the european council of its intention to leave the e.u. (commonly referred to as brexit ). by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty, the u.k. is currently set to leave the e.u. on march 29, 2019. following brexit, our u.k. subsidiaries will not be able to rely on the existence of a passporting regime that allows immediate access to the single e.u. market. current discussions between the u.k. and the e.u. regarding a withdrawal agreement envisage a temporary conti nuation of the existing passporting rights during a limited period following march 29, 2019. however, we are not able to predict with any certainty if, or when, the u.k. and the e.u. will sign the withdrawal agreement. accordingly, we have established new subsidiaries in the e.u. in order to provide our trading platform and certain post-trade services to clients in the e.u. following brexit. see the risk factor captioned the u.k. exit from the european union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe have recently implemented new rules for the fixed-income markets. mifid ii and mifir were implemented in 2018 and introduced significant changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed-income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. mifid ii has caused us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, to incur additional operational costs and has created additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. while we generally believe the net impact of the rules and regulations will be positive for our businesses, unintended consequences of the rules and regulations may adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. our singapore subsidiary, marketaxess singapore pte. limited, is authorized to operate as a recognized market operator ( rmo ) and is also a registered platform in switzerland and hong kong. our canadian subsidiary, marketaxess canada company, is registered as an alternative trading system dealer under the securities act of ontario and is a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada. our brazilian subsidiary, marketaxess plataforma de negociacao ltda., is authorized to provide our platform in brazil under the jurisdiction of the securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. we also provide our platform in other countries pursuant to exemptions from registration under the laws of such countries. employees as of december 31, 2018, we had 454 employees, 272 of whom were based in the u.s. and 182 of whom were based outside of the u.s., principally in the u.k. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information marketaxess was incorporated in delaware in april 2000. our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k; our quarterly reports on form 10-q; our current reports on form 8-k; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 55 hudson yards new york, ny 10001 attn: investor relations our board of directors has standing audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance, risk, mergers and acquisitions and investment committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors and our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of the committee charters and the corporate governance guidelines are also posted on our website. the sec maintains an internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the company) file electronically with the sec. the sec's internet website is www.sec.gov. 19 i tem 1a. risk factors. risks related to our business generally risks related to global economic and market conditions global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere; adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; broad trends in business and finance; consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds, exchange traded funds and other wholesale and retail investors; the level and volatility of interest rates, the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities and foreign currency exchange rates; the effect of federal reserve board monetary policy, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements and political impasses; credit availability and other liquidity concerns; concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and legislative and regulatory changes, including changes to financial industry regulations and tax laws. any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. the u.k. exit from the european union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. in march 2017, the u.k. notified the european council of its intention to leave the e.u. by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty, the u.k. is currently set to leave the e.u. on march 29, 2019. in its negotiations with the e.u., the u.k. is not seeking to maintain continued access to the e.u. single market following brexit, which will lead to the loss of the passporting rights for regulated financial services firms to automatically operate throughout the e.u. this future loss of the existing passport right to the e.u. will affect us and many of our clients. for us, it means we will no longer be able to conduct business in the e.u. through our u.k. subsidiaries following brexit. current discussions between the u.k. and the e.u. regarding a withdrawal agreement, however, envisage a temporary continuation of the existing passporting rights during a limited period following march 29, 2019. we are not able to predict with any certainty if, or when, the u.k. and the e.u. will sign the withdrawal agreement. accordingly, we have established new subsidiaries in the e.u. in order to provide our trading platform and certain post-trade services to clients in the e.u. following brexit. in addition, our preparation for brexit involves making changes to the technology underlying out trading platform, obtaining regulatory approvals and onboarding of clients to our new e.u. platform. in the event that the u.k. leaves the e.u. without a withdrawal agreement in place or our preparations for brexit are insufficient or late, the trading system and post-trade services that we provide to our clients in the u.k. and the e.u. could be significantly disrupted and, as a result, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 brexit is expected to significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in both the u.k. and e.u., and could have a material impact on their economies and the future growth of various industries. in particular, the ecosystem of the e.u. financial services industry in which we operate, which prior to brexit has been heavily centered in london, will become more decentr alized. the exit of the u.k., together with the protracted negotiations around the terms of the exit, could significantly impact the business environment in which we and our clients operate, increase the cost of conducting business in both the e.u. and the u.k., and introduce significant new uncertainties with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our clients are subject. as we currently conduct business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries, we will face new regulator y and operational costs and challenges associated with the establishment of new subsidiaries in the e.u and the management of a less centralized customer and employee base. we could also be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. changes to u.k. immigration policy are likewise expected occur as a result of brexit and our access to, and our ability to compete for and hire, skilled employees in both the u.k. and the e.u. is expected to become more constrained. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. accordingly, the cost and complexity of operating across increasingly divergent regulatory regimes could increase following brexit. although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of an exit of the u.k. from the e.u., or the substance or timeline for any transitional period, any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, brexit may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject. risks related to operating in the electronic fixed-income trading markets decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall market volumes in the past and may experience similar decreases in market volumes in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. our market share of the fixed-income trading markets is also impacted by a variety of other factors, including the amount of new issuances of corporate debt, the level of bond fund inflows or outflows, the percentage of volumes comprised of rule 144a transactions, the percentage of volumes comprised of larger trades known as block trades' and whether the prevalent market environment is an offer wanted or bid wanted environment. a decline in overall market volumes, trading volumes on our platform or in our platform's market share for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. these risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on our platform on a cost-effective basis; expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings for our clients; respond effectively to competitive pressures; respond effectively to the loss of any of our significant broker-dealer or institutional investor clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients); diversify our sources of revenues; 21 maintain adequate control of our expenses; operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems; defend our trading platform and other systems from cybersecurity threats; manage growth in personnel and operations; increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; expand our sales and marketing programs; take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. for example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. we cannot assure you that any new features and versions will become or remain successful. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. u.s. federal income tax reform could have an adverse impact on the issuance of new debt in the u.s. in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act ( tax act ) was enacted into law and introduced significant changes to u.s. tax and related laws. in addition to a reduction in the u.s. federal tax rate, the tax act caps interest deductibility and reduces the incentives for u.s. companies to keep foreign cash outside the u.s. and, as such, may reduce the levels of new corporate debt issuance in the u.s. prior to the tax act, federal tax laws generally provided a strong incentive for u.s. companies to finance their operations with debt rather than equity, primarily due to the deductibility of interest on debt financing. the tax act limits the deduction for interest expense to 30% of an issuer's adjusted taxable income for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017 (initially generally keyed to ebitda and later to ebit for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2022, possibly resulting in a further increase in the disallowance of interest expense). debt incurred prior to the passage of the tax act is not grandfathered. while issuers may still consider debt financing a viable funding option, the initial reaction to the limitation on interest expense deductibility may be for issuers to consider debt to be less attractive. in addition, because of the cap on interest expense deductibility in the u.s., issuers may be incentivized to issue debt overseas, where an interest deduction may continue to be available and beneficial. a decrease in the issuance of new debt by u.s. issuers could, over time, reduce the size of the secondary market for u.s. bond trading in which we operate. prior to the passage of the tax act, earnings of u.s. companies accumulated offshore were generally subject to u.s. tax only when repatriated, with an allowance for foreign taxes previously paid. the tax act reduced the u.s. corporate tax rate by 40% and created a territorial system of taxation in which most foreign income is permanently exempt from u.s. tax. the tax act's territorial regime removes the lockout on overseas earnings of a u.s.-parented group, allowing redeployment or repatriation of those earnings to be utilized for investments (in the us. or other parts of the world), debt repayment, share buybacks, dividends and acquisitions. the ability for u.s. companies to efficiently deploy overseas earnings in the u.s. may reduce the need for such companies to issue new debt in the u.s., which could, over time, reduce the size of the secondary market for u.s. bond trading in which we operate. 22 the tax act could have an adverse impact on the issuance of new debt in the u.s., which could impact the amount of secondary trading volumes in the u.s. bond market. while we are unable to ascertain the exact impact of the tax act on new bond issuance compared to other contributing factors , u.s. high-grade and u.s. high-yield new issuance d eclined by 10. 2 % and 42.9 %, respectively, in 2018 compared to 2017 . a ny material decline in secondary trading volumes in the u.s. bond market would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. risks related to competition we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. in addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-party trading companies; market data and information vendors; securities and futures exchanges; inter-dealer brokerage firms; electronic communications networks; technology, software, and information services or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. we expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations also include the sale of information and analytical tools under our bondticker and trax brands and post-trade services, such as pre-settlement trade matching and transaction reporting and transparency services for the european markets. there is a high degree of competition in data, pricing and post-trade products and services and such businesses may become more competitive in the future as new competitors emerge. our information products and post-trade and services lines may be threatened by new regulations, market trends or technologies that reduce their value. if we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our future levels of business, profitability and growth neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. we cannot assure you that the growth of electronic means of trading securities that we have experienced in recent years will continue. 23 our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we c urrently derive approximately 49.8 % of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business stra tegy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have exper ienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate; past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. from time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, under certain of our fee plans, our fees are designated in basis points in yield (and, as a result, are subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded) or our fees vary based on trade size or maturity. we anticipate that our average fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry; difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations; our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; our ability to drive an increase in the use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; changes in our fee plans; the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; the effectiveness of our sales force; new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; fluctuations in overall market trading volume or our market share for our key products; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions in our geographic markets; additional investment in our services or operations; and new regulations that limit or affect how our electronic trading platform can operate or which increase our regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. 24 as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets, such as our recent entry into the municipal bond and leveraged loan markets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in these and other markets. even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. risks related to our geographic and customer concentration our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by an adverse change in the regions in which we operate. historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the u.s. and the u.k. while we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas. accordingly, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these two countries, such as brexit. moreover, due to the concentration of our operations in these areas, such operations are less diversified and, accordingly, are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. if we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and many of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers' primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. in the u.s., the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which has adversely affected our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities. if bank-affiliated entities reduce their trading activity and that activity is not replaced by other market participants, the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, over the past several years, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries and several of our large broker-dealer clients have reduced their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income products. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the volume of trading on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform and, increasingly, to provide liquidity through our open trading protocols. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. the obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients also buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of a major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 credit and market risks we are exposed to risks in connection with certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary. in connection with our anonymous open trading protocols, we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. settlement typically occurs within one to two trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. we are exposed to credit and performance risks in our role as matched principal trading counterparty to our clients executing open trading trades on our platform, including the risk that counterparties that owe us money or securities will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. in connection with open trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. in the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise that involve substantial risks of liability. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, the settlement of the trade, or claims that we resolved an error trade dispute incorrectly or that a system malfunction or delay caused monetary loss to a client. in addition, because of the ease and speed with which trades can be executed on our electronic platform, clients can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade instructions or by entering trade orders inaccurately. a significant error trade or a large number of error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade on our electronic platform. although we maintain error trade policies designed to protect our open trading participants and enable us to manage the risks attendant in acting as a matched principal counterparty, depending on the cause, number and value of the trades that are the subject of an alleged error or dispute, such trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are required to hold a securities position as a result of an error, there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. in connection with the recent growth of our open trading protocols, we have implemented additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure. there can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail. the fixed-income products that can be traded through our open trading functionality, as well as our investments in fixed and variable rate debt financial instruments, are subject to significant interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. to manage these and the risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, legal, regulatory, operational and market risks. our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. if our risk-management policies and efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory, operational and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. 26 technology and it systems risks rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients' needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking, telecommunications or blockchain technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on third-party vendors for our bond reference databases and the clearing and settlement of our open trading transactions. disruptions in the services provided by those third-parties to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products or provide services that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, cloud computing and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our third-party service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and use of technology. 27 our success depends on maintaining the integrity and capacity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our clients. if our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to continually improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. our computer systems may suffer failures and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. we cannot assure you that we, or our third-party service providers, will not experience systems failures. our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; power, internet or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; human error; computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; natural disasters, fires, floods, widespread health emergencies or other acts of god; acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility; cybersecurity breaches; and loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. in the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades; slower response times or delays in our clients' trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; financial losses and liabilities to clients; litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. 28 in these circumstances, if we were unable to execute our disaster recovery plans, or our redundant systems and disas ter recovery plans proved insufficient for the particular situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be ce rtain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. in addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. it is also a risk that we will not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all such system problems. our disaster recovery plans are heavily reliant on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so any disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. we internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. cybersecurity risks malicious cyber-attacks and other adverse events affecting our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses or regulatory penalties. the operation of our electronic trading platform relies on the secure processing, storage and transmission of a large amount of transactional data and other confidential sensitive data (including confidential client and personal information). although we take protective measures such as security-related software programs, firewalls and similar technology to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our customers' information, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of cyber threats continues to evolve. as a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and personal customer information), unavailability or disruption of service, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, or other malicious code, cyber-attack and other adverse events that could have an adverse security impact. despite the defensive measures we have taken, we are subject to threats, which may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom we have granted access to our computer systems. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential or personal information, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. we also face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints of any of the third party service providers that facilitate our business activities, including clients, clearing agents and network or data providers. such parties could also be the source of a cyber-attack on or breach of our operational systems, data or infrastructure. there have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks in recent years in various industries, including ours, and cyber-security risk management has been the subject of increasing focus by our regulators. if one or more cyber-attacks occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers' or other third parties', operations, which could result in reputational damage, financial losses, customer dissatisfaction and/or regulatory penalties, which may not in all cases be covered by insurance. any such cyber incidents involving our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties important to our businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. our regulators in recent years have increased their examination and enforcement focus on matters relating to cybersecurity threats, including the assessment of firms' vulnerability to cyber-attacks. in particular, regulatory concerns have been raised about firms establishing effective cybersecurity governance and risk management policies, practices and procedures; protecting firm networks and information; identifying and addressing risks associated with clients, vendors, and other third parties; preventing and detecting unauthorized activities; adopting effective mitigation and business continuity plans to address the impact of cybersecurity breaches; and establishing protocols for reporting cybersecurity incidents. while any insurance that we may have that covers a specific cybersecurity incident may help to prevent our realizing a significant loss from the incident, it would not protect us from the effects of adverse regulatory actions that may result from the incident or a finding that we had inadequate cybersecurity controls, including the reputational harm that could result from such regulatory actions. 29 our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber-attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security bre aches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any misappropriated confidential or personal information. although we intend to cont inue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. intellectual property risks we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have been issued 13 patents covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; result in significant monetary liability; divert management's attention and resources; and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. 30 we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement cla ims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our product or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to possible transactions or investments if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. despite our efforts, we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments may involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product; and exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. 31 our investments in expanding our information and post-trade services businesse may not produce substantial revenue or profit. with respect to our information services and post-trade services businesses, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service. even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or sell only small amounts of these products or services. consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion and development initiatives, the up-front costs associated with them may exceed the related revenue and reduce our working capital and income. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. risks related to key personnel and employees we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey's employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and other key personnel. any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey's services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss or interruption, could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has become increasingly competitive as an increasing number of existing and new competitors focus on the electronic trading of credit products. many of these competitive ventures are interested in hiring our experienced technology personnel and our qualified sales staff. additionally, highly innovative technology firms may offer attractive employment opportunities to our technology personnel. many of these firms have greater resources than we have and are able to offer more lucrative compensation packages. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 regulatory risks we operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations. these regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. the sec, finra, the cftc and other agencies extensively regulate the united states financial services industry, including most of our operations in the united states. much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the fca in the united kingdom, the afm in the netherlands, the swiss financial market supervisory authority in switzerland, the monetary authority of singapore, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and provincial regulators in canada, and the securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. in addition, xtrakter is registered as an arm and apa with the fca and the afm. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer and other licensed subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. certain of our regulated subsidiaries, including our registered broker-dealer and mtf, are subject to u.s. or foreign regulations which prohibit repayment of borrowings from us or our affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary's principal regulator. marketaxess sef corporation is registered with the cftc as a sef and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. our authority to operate our platform in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. our systems and procedures may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. in addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. in addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. the implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. for a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see item 1. business government regulation. 33 some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. these regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiar y, which may include changes in control of marketaxess. as a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. the financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the united states congress, in state legislatures and by foreign governments. the government agencies that regulate us continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives, may adopt new or revised laws and regulations and have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. in light of recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. we are unable to predict which of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and that of our clients are also affected by the policies adopted by the federal reserve and international central banking authorities, which may affect the credit quality of our customers or increase the cost for our customers to trade the instruments on our platform. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may directly impact our cost of funds for capital raising and inv estment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. in addition, regulatory bodies in europe have recently developed new rules for the fixed-income markets. mifid ii and mifir were implemented in january 2018 and introduced significant changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed-income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. mifid ii has caused us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. there is also increasing public concern regarding data privacy and data protection and many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the european union general data protection regulation, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes will impact our european business and operations, but they may increase our compliance risk and cost, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development and growth of impacted markets to become impractical. for example, the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which negatively impacts the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. other regulatory initiatives include basel iii, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and liquidity in most of the world's major economies. these rules restrict the ability of our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients to raise additional capital or use existing capital for trading purposes, which might cause them to trade less on our platform. in addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. we cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under regulation ats. a determination by the sec to treat our disclosed trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats would subject us to additional reporting obligations, compliance and operational costs and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. if we offer a trading methodology subject to oversight under regulation ats in the future, such as a central limit order book for the trading of bonds or other similar automated matching services, these protocols would likely be regulated as an alternative trading system subject to regulation ats, which could increase our compliance and operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our businesses. the activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 the extensive regulation of our business means we have ongoing exposure to potentially significant costs and penalties. our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. many of these regulators, including u.s. and non-u.s. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the u.s., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. self-regulatory organizations such as finra and the national futures association ( nfa ), along with statutory bodies such as the sec, the cftc, and the fca, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the sec, the cftc, finra, the nfa, state securities commissions and state attorney generals in the u.s., and the fca in the u.k. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal risks in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. misconduct or error by employees could include engaging in improperly using our confidential information or the confidential or personal information of our clients or engaging in improper or unauthorized activities or transactions. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients may make claims against us regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, resolution of trade error claims, system failures, failure to protect their confidential or personal information, mismanagement or even fraud. we may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and the services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to growing our u.s. and international operations we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate an electronic trading platform in europe, latin america and asia and we may further expand our operations throughout these and other regions. we have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the increasing globalization of our platform and services. however, there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; 35 fluctuations i n exchange rates; reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. for example, mifid ii and mifir were implemented by regulatory bodies in europe in january 2018. we cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our european business and operations, but they may cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure. we cannot predict what future actions that the regulatory bodies that supervise our business might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients' trading activities on our platform. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in addition, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service, and the period before the product or service is successfully developed, introduced and adopted may extend over many months or years. even after incurring these costs, our clients may determine that they do not need or prefer the product or service. we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries outside the u.s., most notably the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in non u.s. dollar currencies. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our net investment in our u.k. subsidiaries and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 36 liquidity and funding risks we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit agreement are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business; develop new or enhanced services and products; fund operating losses; respond to competitive pressures; acquire complementary companies or technologies; enter into strategic alliances; increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. the growth of our open trading protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. in addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us. all or part of any debt financing would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co., which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan chase &amp; co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $100.0 million. subject to the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the borrowing capacity of the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; create or incur liens; change our line of business; sell or transfer assets; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments; consummate a merger or consolidation; enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. 37 we ar e also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated adjusted ebitda level. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender u nder the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also ha ve the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit a greement. risks related to our internal controls as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management's attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities; changes in the nature of our stockholder base; additional issuances of common stock; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. 38 we may decrease or cease paying dividends on our common stock in the fu ture. we initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future or, if we continue paying dividends, that such dividends will be paid at the rate at which they were paid in prior periods. if we were to decrease the dividend rate or cease paying dividends, investors may need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the primary or only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquirer to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions.risk factors. item 1. business. overview marketaxess holdings inc. (the company or marketaxess ) operates leading electronic trading platforms delivering expanded liquidity opportunities, improved execution quality and significant cost savings across global fixed-income markets. over 1,700 institutional investor and broker-dealer firms are active users of our patented trading technology, accessing global liquidity on our platforms in u.s. investment-grade bonds, u.s. high-yield bonds, u.s. treasuries, emerging market debt, eurobonds and other fixed income securities. through our open trading protocols, we execute bond trades between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in our leading all-to-all anonymous trading environment for corporate bonds. we also offer a number of trading-related products and services, including: composite+ pricing and other market data products to assist clients with trading decisions auto-execution and other execution services for clients requiring specialized workflow solutions connectivity solutions that facilitate straight-through processing and technology services to optimize trading environments. in addition, we provide a range of pre- and post-trade services, including trade matching, trade publication, regulatory transaction reporting and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income and other products. our platforms' innovative technology solutions are designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties and create a menu of solutions to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics. our traditional request-for-quote ( rfq ) model allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. our anonymous trading protocols (referred to throughout as open trading ) complement our rfq model by increasing the number of potential counterparties and improving liquidity by allowing all participants to interact anonymously in an all-to-all trading environment. clients can use our auto-execution technology with both our traditional rfq and open trading protocols, thereby using rules-based execution to connect to diverse sources of liquidity while reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. leveraging the benefits of our open trading marketplace, we recently launched live markets, an order book that will create a single view of two-way, actionable prices for the most active bonds, including newly issued debt, benchmark issues and news-driven securities. we expect that open trading participants will improve their trading capacity through the live markets order book, by more efficiently trading liquid names in larger size and accessing integrated real-time market data, such as composite+. our services relating to trade execution range from providing a suite of trading protocols designed to fit the trading needs of our clients to innovative new trading technologies, such as auto-execution and the use of artificial intelligence, to assist our clients' trading decisions. trading protocols include single and multiple-dealer inquiries list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on up to 200 bonds at the same time portfolio trading, which allows clients to competitively trade baskets of up to 1,500 securities and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond. auto-execution allows clients to set eligibility criteria for their orders that our system will use to determine whether or not to execute a trade in accordance with the pre-defined parameters. once a trade is completed, clients will settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. 3 we entered the u.s. treasury market in 2019 throu gh our acquisition of liquidityedge llc ( liquidityedge ) . liquidityedge's innovative custom liquidity pools, as well as direct dealer streaming capabilities, for on- and off-the-run u.s. treasuries offers a bespoke trading ecosystem to connect a community of dealers, market-makers and institutional investors to trade in the $ 5 9 3.6 billion average-daily-volume u.s. treasury market. in addition to providing marketaxess clients with an enhanced ability t o trade u.s. treasuries , the acquisition is expected to support the future expansion of the company's hedging capabilities for its clients. we are not a party to any of the disclosed trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact directly with each other. however, in connection with our open trading and other anonymous protocols, we execute bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. in 2019, 26.1% of all credit volume on the marketaxess platform was executed via open trading protocols, up from 22.0% in 2018. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97.6% of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. corporate bonds and approximately 85.3% of the underwriting of newly issued european corporate bonds in 2019. although institutional investors, specialist market-making firms, proprietary trading firms and other non-traditional liquidity providers have increasingly provided liquidity on our platform through open trading, we believe these broker-dealers still represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the markets in which we operate. secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. in 2019, our volume in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 19.0% of the total estimated u.s. high-grade corporate bond volume, as reported by the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) trade reporting and compliance engine ( trace ). trace facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter ( otc ) secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities in the u.s., including trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, as well as inter-dealer and retail trading. all broker-dealers that are finra member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to trace under a set of rules approved by the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we provide trade matching and regulatory reporting services for european investment firms and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income products. in response to the pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from the recast markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ii ) in europe, trax has been authorized by each of the u.k. financial conduct authority ( fca ) and the netherlands authority for the financial markets ( afm ) as an approved publication arrangement ( apa ) and an approved reporting mechanism ( arm ). in addition to its apa and arm reporting services, trax has developed a comprehensive suite of value-add solutions for mifid ii, including pre-trade transparency services, systematic internaliser ( si ) determination and monitoring, best execution reporting, commodity position reporting, data quality analysis and peer benchmarking. in 2019, 90.7% of our revenues were derived from commissions for transactions executed on our platforms. we also derive revenues from information services, post-trade services and other income. our revenue can be impacted by seasonal effects caused by increased levels of new bond issuance, which often occurs in the first quarter of a year, or slow-downs in trading activity, particularly during the customary holiday periods in august and december. our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising, clearing costs and other general and administrative expenses. industry background fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. as of september 30, 2019, the most recent date available, there were approximately $32.6 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the u.s. market, including $9.6 trillion principal amount of u.s. corporate bonds and $16.3 trillion principal amount of u.s. government bonds, according to the securities industry and financial markets association ( sifma ). the estimated average daily trading volume of u.s. corporate bonds, as measured by trace, was $31.0 billion in 2019. primary dealer holdings of u.s. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield) as reported by the federal reserve bank of new york were $8.8 billion as of december 31, 2019. this represents less than one day of trading volume as measured by trace. 4 traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. this traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for fixed-income securities, which makes it difficult to match buyers and sellers for particular issues. many market participants also use e-mail and instant messaging for trading these securities. while these electronic communication methods have addressed some of the limitations associated with telephonic trading, these methods are still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time. our platforms' functionality address many of the remaining shortcomings that result from trading bonds over the telephone, e-mail or instant message. demand for our trading platforms has grown as the need for greater execution efficiency and changing regulations have continued to shift trading from voice markets to electronic markets across our product areas. we and other trading platforms have responded to this demand with technological advances which have further automated many of the manual processes required by traditional methods of trading. although our market share has increased significantly in recent years, large components of the fixed income markets in which we operate have not yet migrated to electronic trading because of the diverse and heterogeneous nature of those instruments and because participants in these markets have traditionally operated in a more relationship-driven environment. regulatory changes have also driven demand for the electronification of fixed-income trading processes. the policy objectives of a number of post-2008 crisis reforms, such as the dodd-frank wall street reform and customer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), basel iii and mifid ii, are to increase transparency and reduce systemic risk. these objectives have generally led to increased adoption of electronic trading on regulated markets where price transparency, all-to-all trading and reporting tools are essential components. the volcker rule, which limits proprietary trading by banks, has also had an impact on dealer inventories and the ability of dealers to act as market-makers. our open trading protocols, which are designed to allow our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment, have helped market participants improve their liquidity and turnover in response to these trends. during 2019, almost 1,100 participating client firms provided liquidity via our open trading solutions and we completed approximately 1.4 million open trading trades, an increase of 24.4% compared to 2018. our competitive strengths we believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including: significant trading volumes with participation by leading broker-dealers and institutional investors our electronic trading platforms provide access to the liquidity generated by the participation of over 1,700 active institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. we believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, european high-grade corporate bonds and the other markets in which we operate. our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients and their ability to use our open trading protocols to help manage their risk, source liquidity, and facilitate transactions on behalf of their clients. 5 as shown in the chart below, our total credit trading volume increased from $ 978 . 5 billion in 201 5 to $ 2. 0 trillion in 201 9 . our adjusted* estimated share of u.s. high-grade and high-yield corporate bond volume from 2015 to 2019 is shown in the chart below: * we adjusted the reported u.s. high-grade trace volumes to eliminate the increased reporting of affiliate back-to-back trades by certain broker-dealers that occurred from january 2015 through october 2015 because we believe that the trace volume, as adjusted by us, provide a more accurate comparison to prior period reporting. 6 open trading is a differentiator that expands the liquidity pool and further increases cost-savings for clients in the post-financial crisis years, liquidity has remained a persistent concern for market participants as regulators raised banks' capital requirements and adopted other measures that prompted many dealers to reduce market-making activities even as the buy side's bond holdings have grown rapidly. in this environment, open trading, our fully electronic, all-to-all trading environment, has emerged as one solution to the post-crisis liquidity problem. as a result, the liquidity options for open trading participants are broader and more diverse compared to the traditional model of bilateral trading with a limited set of dealer counterparties. the expanded pool of liquidity providers includes investment managers, global dealers, regional dealers and specialist market-making and proprietary trading firms. during 2019, almost 1,100 unique liquidity providers participated in open trading. open trading improves the ability of both dealers and institutional investors to find natural and opportunistic matches, move orders more efficiently, and achieve significant increases in execution quality and price improvement. we believe our open trading protocols enhance our institutional investor clients' ability to obtain a competitive price by allowing all of our open trading participants to interact with each other, thereby increasing the potential sources of liquidity for each participant, as well as the likelihood of receiving a competitive price response. we estimate that liquidity takers saved over $209.8 million in transaction costs through open trading during 2019, while liquidity providers saved an estimated $174.7 million during the year. these open trading cost savings are in addition to the potential cost savings institutional investors can achieve by simultaneously requesting bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients via our traditional rfq protocol. during 2019, open trading delivered significant transaction cost savings for participants with an estimated $384.5 million in aggregate savings for both liquidity providers and liquidity takers. estimated liquidity taker cost savings is defined as the difference between the winning price and the best disclosed dealer cover price. estimated liquidity provider cost savings is defined as the difference between the winning price and then current composite+ bid or offer level (offer if the provider if buying, bid if provider is selling) at the time of the inquiry. growing, comprehensive international offering and client base our platforms provide global fixed-income market participants with trading functionality across global hard currency and local currency markets, connecting clients in over 50 countries to local and global dealers. marketaxess has over 825 client firms located outside the u.s. that access our platforms through our regulated venues in europe, asia and latin america. our open trading functionality allows international clients to access cross-border liquidity with minimal ramp-up time or regulatory hurdles. the marketaxess emerging markets trading platform also offers the most comprehensive offering for local currency bond trading across the latin america, central eastern europe, middle east and africa ( ceemea ), and asia-pacific ( apac ) regions. our platforms provide clients with the ability to trade local currency debt denominated in 28 local currencies with over 125 emerging market dealers. robust, scalable technology throughout the full trading cycle we have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs. we have consistently used our proprietary technology to find new ways for our clients to trade more effectively and efficiently. our core software solutions span multiple components of the trading lifecycle and include pre-trade data and analytics, trade execution and post-trade data, analytics and reporting, connectivity and straight-through processing. our systems are built to be scalable, flexible and resilient. we have also created new trading protocols and developed additional solutions for our clients that are translated and built by our highly experienced technology and business personnel. going forward, we expect that our agile software development processes will help us continue to be a market leader in developing the technology solutions for our clients' trading needs. in addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services throughout the trading cycle. in the pre-trade period, our platform assists our participants by providing them with value-added services, such as real-time and historical trade price information, liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts. following the execution of a trade, our platform supports all of the essential tools and functionalities to enable our participants to realize the full benefits of electronic trading and demonstrate best execution, including real-time trade details, straight-through processing ( stp ), account allocations, automated audit trails, regulatory trade reporting, trade detail matching, and transaction cost analysis. 7 next generation data and analytical tools supporting the increasing automation of trading workflows our data and analytical tools enhance the value proposition of our trading platforms and improve the trading experience of our clients. we support our clients' trading functions by offering value-added analytics that rely on machine-learning, automation and algorithms that are designed to improve the trading decisions and workflows of our clients. our data and analytical tools are designed to help clients make better trading decisions, benefitting our current clients and attracting new market participants to our network. for example, our composite+ pricing algorithm powers many of our automated trading solutions, which allows traders to automatically execute trades according to pre-determined parameters and automatically send completed or rejected order details to internal order management systems. by allowing traders to automate and execute their smaller, low touch trades more efficiently, our auto-execution solutions allow traders to focus their attention on higher value-added trades, with a goal of reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. proven innovator with an experienced management team since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. the members of our management team average more than 20 years of experience in the securities industry. we have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods and improve liquidity. in recent years, marketaxess has received industry recognition from key independent publications for its innovations and contributions to the fixed-income market. for example, in 2019, open trading won the waters technology buy-side technology award for the best buy-side execution venue, and composite+ won the risk market technology award for the electronic trading support product of the year and the waters technology waters rankings award for the best artificial intelligence technology provider. some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include: the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for u.s. high-grade corporate bonds the first electronic treasury benchmarking for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades bondticker , our information services product, combining trace bond data with marketaxess data and analytical tools bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for credit derivative indices public market lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed-income market and open trading, the largest anonymous all-to-all trading environment for corporate bonds, which has helped market participants improve their liquidity and turnover in the post-crisis period. independent ownership structure we believe our ownership structure has been an advantage relative to certain of our competitors that are owned by exchange or dealer groups as we have been free to make balanced business and trading protocol decisions with the best interests of both our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in mind. we are also able to attract industry leaders with valuable skills and insights to our independent board of directors. 8 our strategy our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platforms for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. the key elements of our strategy are: broaden our client base in our existing markets and increase penetration with existing clients we intend to use our broad network of over 1,700 active institutional investor and broker-dealer participants to drive more clients to our leading electronic fixed-income trading platforms. the number of active participants on our platforms has increased by over 113.3% since 2014. we believe that the continued expansion of our client base will lead to even further increases in the liquidity available on our platforms. we expect that the increased liquidity on our platforms and our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings will also help us deepen our market share with our existing clients across our product suite. the number of clients trading three or more products on our platform has increased by 59.3% from 614 in 2015 to 978 in 2019. last, we plan to increase our international presence by increasing the number of firms located outside the u.s. that access our platforms through our venues in europe, asia and latin america, increasing the number of local currencies available for trading on our platforms and, subject to regulatory requirements, increasing the number of countries in which we can offer our platforms. enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our platforms by leveraging our client network and open trading protocols we aim to increase the secondary market liquidity on our trading platforms by deploying innovative technology solutions designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our platforms and to address different trade sizes, bond liquidity characteristics and trading preferences. our open trading protocols exponentially increase the potential trading counterparties by allowing broker-dealers and institutional investors to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. during 2019, our clients executed approximately 1.4 million trades using our open trading solutions, representing 26.1% of the total credit trading volume on our corporate bond platform. in recent years, we have also significantly increased the number of participants that provide bond prices to our corporate bond platform via an algorithm, which has helped increase the number of algorithmic price responses from 0.8 million in 2016 to 9.4 million in 2019. we intend to continue to improve the liquidity of bonds on our platform by increasing the number of connections we have with algorithmic trading firms. we also believe that the combination of open trading and our vast client network provides the basis for marketaxess to deliver meaningful cross-border liquidity or enter into new markets where liquidity is scarcer, such as municipal bonds. continue to develop innovative next-generation technologies that will allow our clients to further automate and improve the performance of their trading desks we believe that the increased adoption of next-generation trading technologies by both dealer and investor clients will create improved liquidity, enhanced trading efficiencies and the ability to identify trends within the bond market. in recent years, we have launched a number of innovative technologies that rely on machine-learning, automation and algorithms that are designed to improve the trading decisions and workflows of our clients, while reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. for example, clients can use our rules-based auto-execution technology with both our traditional rfq protocol and open trading to automatically execute trades meeting defined parameters with diverse sources of liquidity. our composite+ pricing algorithm uses machine-learning to generate near real-time prices for over 25,000 corporate bonds based on a variety of data inputs, and our like bonds product uses a data-driven methodology to help clients find liquid, tradable alternatives to illiquid bonds. we intend to continue to invest in and develop advanced technologies such as these that will make marketaxess an increasingly valuable part of our clients' trading decisions and workflows. 9 expand and strengthen our trade-related service, data and analytical offerings throughout the trading cycle we plan to expand and strengthen our existing service, data and analytical offerings throughout the trading cycle so that marketaxess is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. in the pre-trade period, we intend to continue to enhance the value of our information and analytical offerings, including the content and capabilities of bondticker , axess all and composite+. we plan to enhance and expand the usage of liquiditybridge , our execution management system ( ems ) service that allows users to manage and facilitate the complex liquidity flows across multiple trading platforms, including the marketaxess system. we also intend to augment our post-trade matching and regulatory reporting services provided by our trax brand in europe that enable our clients to comply with their heightened obligations pursuant to mifid ii. as the use of our pre- and post-trade services and products grow, we believe that marketaxess will become further entrenched as a value-added resource to our clients at each stage of the trading cycle, which we believe will further increase the attractiveness and use of our trading platforms. pursue select acquisitions and strategic alliances we continually evaluate opportunities to supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform and existing trade-related services to our clients. in 2017, we expanded our strategic alliance with blackrock, inc. ( blackrock ) to combine blackrock's order flow with our open trading solution to improve the range of trading connections available to global credit market participants. the acquisition of liquidityedge in november 2019 provides our clients with access to one of the leading platforms for u.s. treasury trading, and it supports the further expansion of our u.s. treasury hedging capabilities for our corporate bond platform. in addition, we entered into a partnership with virtu financial, inc. in april 2019 to provide institutions with enhanced trading tools and access to global exchange-traded funds (etfs) and fixed income securities. our key trading markets and services u.s. high-grade corporate bond market the u.s. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called high-grade ), which typically refers to debt rated bbb- or better by standard poor's or baa3 or better by moody's investor service debt rated below investment-grade (so-called high-yield ), which typically refers to debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service and debt convertible into equity (so-called convertible debt ). according to sifma, u.s. corporate bond debt outstanding has increased approximately 20.0% from $8.0 trillion at year-end 2014 to $9.6 trillion at september 30, 2019. we use the terms high-grade and investment-grade interchangeably in this annual report on form 10-k. the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market represents the largest subset of the u.s. corporate bond market. over the last five years, high-grade corporate bond issuance was over $1 trillion each year. notwithstanding the growth in the total amount of debt outstanding, turnover (which is the total amount traded as a percentage of the amount outstanding for the bonds that traded) is still below pre-credit crisis levels. the average daily trading volume of u.s. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by trace for the year ended december 31, 2019 was approximately $22.2 billion compared to $20.7 billion and $19.6 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. our u.s. high-grade corporate bond business consists of u.s. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the u.s. over 100 broker-dealers utilize our platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by underwriting volume of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in 2019. our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97.6 % of the underwriting of newly-issued u.s. high-grade corporate bonds in 2019. more than 1,100 active domestic and foreign institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our 2019 trading volume in the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market was $1.1 trillion. u.s. crossover and high-yield bond market we define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than bbb- by standard poor's or baa3 by moody's investor service. we define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment-grade by one agency but investment-grade by the other . the total annual amount of high-yield corporate bond issuance as reported by sifma increased by 61.5% to $273.5 billion in 2019 from $169.4 billion in 2018. the average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by trace for the year ended december 31, 2019 was approximately $8.8 billion compared to $8.0 billion and $8.2 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. over 100 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 1,000 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. we also offer leveraged loan trading for our clients that trade high-yield bonds. our 2019 trading volume in the high-yield bond market was $228.5 billion. 10 emerging markets bond market we define the emerging markets bond market generally to include u.s. dollar, euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. these issuers are typically located in latin america, asia, or central and eastern europe. examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, the philippines, russia, turkey and venezuela. the institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. the average daily trading volume of emerging markets debt, as reported by the emerging markets trade association for the nine months ended september 30, 2019, the most recent date available, was $21.3 billion compared to $19.6 billion and $19.9 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. over 125 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 1,000 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. the emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2019 were mexico, brazil, south africa, argentina, and indonesia. in 2019, our clients were able to trade corporate and sovereign debt denominated in 25 local market currencies on our platform. our 2019 trading volume in the emerging market bond market was $489.4 billion. european corporate bond market the european corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. we define the european corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to european investors, primarily bonds issued by european corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in europe. examples include: bonds issued by european corporations, denominated in any currency bonds generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling intended to be distributed to european investors, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the world bank), agencies and governments located in europe, generally denominated in euros, u.s. dollars or british pounds sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued and floating-rate notes issued by european corporations. we believe that the european corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the u.s. high-grade corporate bond market. the total amount of euro denominated high-grade and high-yield bonds yearly issuance as reported by the international capital markets association increased by 31.1% to $514.4 billion in 2019 from $392.5 billion in 2018. the average daily trading volume of european corporate bonds as estimated by trax for the year ended december 31, 2019 was approximately $10.5 billion compared to $9.2 billion and $9.4 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. we offer secondary trading functionality in u.s. dollar- and euro-denominated european corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we also offer our clients the ability to trade in other european corporate bonds, including bonds issued in british pounds sterling, floating rate notes, european government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. we offered the first platform in europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. in the eurobond credit market, defined as including european high-grade, high-yield and government bonds, 50 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including each of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2019 european corporate new-issue underwriting volume. more than 550 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade european bonds. our 2019 trading volume in the eurobond bond market was $247.2 billion. u.s. treasury market u.s. treasury securities are government instruments issued by the u.s. department of the treasury. the average daily trading volume of u.s. treasuries as measured by sifma was $593.6 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to $547.8 billion and $505.2 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. over 125 firms use our liquidityedge platform to trade u.s. treasuries. the treasury products traded on the liquidityedge platform include on the runs, off the runs and guaranteed spreads. during the period following the completion of the liquidityedge acquisition on november 1, 2019 through december 31, 2019 our trading volume in the u.s. treasury market was $0.7 trillion. 11 u.s. municipal bond market municipal bonds are debt securities issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities in the u.s. to fund day-to-day obligations and to finance a wide variety of public projects, such as highways or water systems. depending on the type of financing, payments of the principal and interest on a municipal bond may come from general revenues of the municipal issuer, specific tax receipts, revenues generated from a public project, or payments from private entities or from a combination of sources. in addition to being issued for many different purposes, municipal securities are also issued in many different forms, such as fixed rate, zero coupon or variable rate bonds. the interest paid on municipal securities is typically exempt from federal income taxation and may be exempt from state income and other taxes as well. as of december 31, 2019, there were over 1.5 million different municipal bonds outstanding, in the total aggregate principal amount of more than $3.8 trillion. in 2019, the average daily trading volume of municipal bonds, excluding variable rate demand notes, as measured by the municipal securities rulemaking board ( msrb ) was $5.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to $6.0 billion and $5.5 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. over 90 broker-dealer clients and over 200 institutional investor clients use our platform to trade municipal bonds. we offer trading for both taxable and non-taxable municipal bonds. our 2019 trading volume in the u.s. municipal bond market was $7.5 billion. u.s. agency bond market we define the u.s. agency bond market to include debt issued by a u.s. government-sponsored enterprise. some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the federal national mortgage association and federal home loan mortgage corporation. the total amount of u.s. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $1.8 trillion as of september 30, 2019 as reported by sifma. the average daily trading volume of u.s. agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by trace was $4.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to $3.6 billion and $4.2 billion for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. over 40 of our broker-dealer clients and more than 300 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade u.s. agency bonds. trading in u.s. agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our u.s. high-grade corporate bond offering. our 2019 trading volume in the u.s. agency bond market was $47.8 billion. credit derivative market credit derivatives are contracts that allow market participants to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations without ownership of the underlying security. among the most significant requirements of the derivatives section of the dodd-frank act are mandatory clearing of certain derivatives transactions ( swaps ) through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or swap execution facilities ( sefs ), in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. we operate a sef pursuant to the u.s. commodity futures trading commission's ( cftc ) rules and we list certain credit derivatives for trading by u.s. persons and other participants on our sef. the sec has not yet finalized its rules for security-based sefs that would govern the execution of single-name credit derivatives. we offer a range of functionality for electronic trading of cftc-regulated credit derivative instruments on our sef in compliance with the cftc's requirements. this includes an rfq system that allows participants to send anonymous or disclosed rfqs, as well as an order book, which enables market participants to trade anonymously with all other market participants. approximately 30 active market participants use our sef to trade credit derivative indices and credit options. our 2019 credit derivatives trading volume was $48.9 billion. 12 execution benefits for clients in addition to our platforms' strengths described above, we believe our platforms provide numerous additional benefits to our clients over both traditional fixed-income trading methods and competing electronic trading systems, including: open trading functionality we offer open trading protocols for all of our key trading products, including corporate, municipal and emerging market bonds. our market list functionality provides our open trading participants with the ability to display requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire marketaxess trading community, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a completed trade. public axes is an order book-style price discovery process that gives clients the ability to view anonymous or disclosed indications of interest from the inventory on our platform. for block-sized trades, clients may use our private axes functionality, a protocol that allows participants to anonymously negotiate round lots (greater than $1.0 million) and block trades to minimize information leakage. we recently launched live markets, an order book that will create a single view of two-way, actionable prices for the most active bonds, including newly issued debt, benchmark issues and news-driven securities. transparent pricing on a broad range of securities the price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from our broker-dealer clients' inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools available on our bondticker service (including composite+ predictive pricing, spread-to-treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research), and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from all of our participating broker-dealer clients during the trading process on any debt security in our bond reference database. institutional investors and broker-dealer clients can search bonds in inventory based on combinations of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. we believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs. highly automated trading processes that create greater trading accuracy and cost-efficiency we believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. single-security, multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries and portfolio trading (baskets of up to 1,500 securities) can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers or via open trading. our auto-execution technology uses rules-based execution logic to reduce trading inefficiencies and human errors while allowing traders to focus on higher-value trades. in addition, our bondticker service eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communications to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices. our electronic trading platforms also include verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including real-time trade details, stp, account allocations, automated audit trails and trade detail matching. these verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. our platforms are designed to assist our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. this automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from manual entry of information into different systems. efficient risk monitoring and compliance institutional investors, broker-dealers and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. our electronic trading platforms offer both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. this enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. trade information, including all price responses, execution time, trade price and, if applicable, spread-to-treasury, is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. this data represents a valuable source of information for our clients' compliance personnel. importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing and transaction cost analysis that is a feature of our electronic trading platforms, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients. 13 limited information leakage our open trading protocols allow our institutional investor clients to maintain their anonymity from trade initiation through to settlement without limiting their number of potential trading counterparties. in addition, our private axes protocol allows participants to negotiate bilaterally on an anonymous basis to minimize information leakage when transacting in larger trade sizes. greater sales efficiency and more efficient inventory management we offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional investor clients. through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. we also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. in addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on higher value-added trades and more complex transactions. the posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. broker-dealers are also increasingly turning towards open trading as a new source of liquidity as they manage their risk exposure. as a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover by using our platform, which may limit their credit exposure. post-trade reporting, publishing and matching services in europe, all firms regulated as investment firms under mifid ii are required to submit complete and accurate details of qualifying transactions to their national regulator no later than the close of the working day following the date of the transaction. this process is known as transaction reporting. pursuant to the associated markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ), the number of fields and the complexity of the information that must be reported to regulators was significantly enhanced. firms may either report directly to the regulator or use an entity that is licensed as an arm , such as our trax arm, to validate and submit such reports . in addition, under mifir, all regulated investment firms are required to comply with pre- and post-trade transparency requirements pursuant to which quotes and trades must be made public subject to a system of waivers and deferrals. firms are required to utilize an apa, such as our trax apa, to comply with the post trade transparency requirement and, although optional, many firms also utilize a third-party provider, such as trax , to satisfy the pre trade transparency requirement. the trax transparency solution and the trax apa trade reporting solution are available through the trax insight platform, offering our clients a pre- and post-trade transparency solution, including apa trade reporting, quote publication, si determination and instrument liquidity classification. trax also offers a commodity position reporting service to assist firms in compliance with the commodity derivative position limit reporting requirements of mifid ii. trade matching enables counterparties to agree on the terms of a trade shortly after execution, reducing the risk of trade errors and fails during settlement. trax match is our near real-time post-trade matching and exception management tool which covers a broad range of securities, including fixed-income and equities. by confirming all economic details within minutes of trade execution, trax match helps our clients to mitigate their operational risk, improve stp and efficiency and address the complexities of mifid ii and the central securities depositories regulation . trax has over 180 clients, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. the trax platform processed approximately 1.2 billion transactions in 2019. information and execution management services traders are increasingly using data and machine-learning for pre-trade analytics, automated execution, transaction cost analysis and post-trade solutions. our real-time pre-trade data and analytics are an additional value-added resource to our participants at each stage of the trading cycle, which further increases the attractiveness and use of our trading platforms. in the pre-trade period, our platforms assist our participants by providing them with real time and historical trade price information, intelligent composite+ pricing, bondticker , liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts. the information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. our electronic trading platforms allow institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services. 14 our composite+ pricing algorithm generates near real-time prices for over 25,000 corporate bonds based on a variety of data inputs, including feeds from our trading platform, our trax post-trade service and trace. composite+ is used by clients as a pre-trade reference price to enhance trading outcomes and transaction cost analysis. composite+ can be combined with our auto-execution service, providing clients with an alert if a response is off market . through our trax brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by market participants and leveraging data from our post-trade services business. axess all , the first intra-day trade tape for the european fixed-income market, is sourced from over 30,000 bond transactions processed daily by trax and includes aggregated volume and pricing for the most actively traded european fixed-income instruments. we also provide market participants with access to pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 40,000 unique fixed-income securities and securities reference data for approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities. bondticker provides real-time trace data and enhances it with marketaxess trade data and analytical tools in order to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. the data includes trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as marketaxess-estimated spread-to-treasuries, for trades disseminated by the trace system. the data also includes actual execution prices and spread-to-treasury levels for u.s. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the marketaxess platform. bondticker is currently the source of corporate bond trading information for the wall street journal in the u.s . bondticker allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. this search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct trace feeds and european pricing information provided by trax's end-of-day pricing feed. bondticker is integrated directly into the marketaxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. bondticker is also available through the internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via a browser-based interface. we also offer a set of tools that analyze credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. these tools utilize extensive amounts of market data and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats, depending on the business purpose. further, we provide extensive client-specific reports that measure trading performance on our electronic trading platforms, including reports for the value of price discovery from multiple dealers, the cost savings generated from open trading participation and transaction cost analysis. liquiditybridge is our ems service that allows users to manage and facilitate the complex liquidity flows across multiple trading platforms, including the marketaxess system. liquiditybridge brings together real-time comparison and execution of bond prices across multiple sectors, allowing users to rapidly react to trading opportunities. clients can also automatically generate custom pricing and distribute inventory to any destination. by using a library of standard adaptors, liquiditybridge can be deployed across a variety of fixed-income markets. straight-through processing and apis straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end trade execution, confirmation and settlement without the need for manual intervention. we provide our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable our clients to communicate electronically between their front- and back-office systems. our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of our clients and allow them to integrate their order, portfolio management and accounting systems in real time. we continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients' trading operations. usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several years. we maintained over 1,300 stp connections as of december 31, 2019. in addition, many of our clients use our application programming interface ( api ) services for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services to improve efficiency and reduce errors in processing. 15 sales and marketing we promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. our sales force, which works closely with our product management and technology teams, is responsible for client acquisition activity and the management of ongoing client relationships to increase clients' awareness, knowledge and usage of our trading platforms, new product launches, information and data services and pre- and post-trade services. our sales team is also responsible for training and supporting new and existing clients on their use of our platforms, including how to optimize their trading performance and efficiency through our various trading protocols. we employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, digital and social media, promotional mailings, and participation in industry conferences and media engagement, to increase awareness of our brand, our trading platforms and our other solutions. for example, we have worked with the wall street journal to establish bondticker as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. a similar process also exists for our trax post-trade business, employing both direct and indirect sales methods. competition the global fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we engage in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we compete with a broad range of market participants globally. some of these market participants compete with us in a particular market, while select others compete against the entire spectrum of our platforms and solutions. we face five main areas of competition: telephone and direct electronic communications we compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone, e-mail or instant messaging directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning or otherwise communicating via e-mail or instant messaging with bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. this remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bond volumes are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. other electronic trading platforms there are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence, including several that have only commenced operations in the last few years. we compete with tradeweb, bloomberg, intercontinental exchange (bondpoint, tmc bonds, creditex), trumid and others in the credit and municipal markets and tradeweb, bloomberg, nasdaq (nasdaq fixed income), cme group (nex group), bgc partners (fenics ust) and others in the rates markets. in addition, some broker-dealers and institutional investors operate, or have invested in, proprietary electronic trading systems or information networks that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services. exchanges in recent years, exchanges have pursued acquisitions that have put them in competition with us. for example, london stock exchange group has recently announced an acquisition to become a significant owner of tradeweb and intercontinental exchange acquired bondpoint and tmc bonds, retail-focused platforms, and idc, a provider of fixed income data, in an effort to expand its portfolio of fixed income products and services. cme group and nasdaq also operate platforms that compete with us. exchanges also have data and analytics relationships with several market participants, which increasingly put their offerings in direct competition with us. market data and information vendors several large market data and information providers, such as bloomberg, refinitiv, intercontinental exchange, and ihs markit currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. some of these entities currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities. some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. these entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platforms. other approved regulatory mechanisms we compete with other approved regulatory mechanisms in europe that have arm and apa designations, such as the london stock exchange's unavista and tradeweb, to provide post-trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting and transparency services to european clients. competitors, including companies in which some of our clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. furthermore, some of our clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. 16 in general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including: broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platforms liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers and, to a growing extent, by other institutional investors magnitude and frequency of price improvement enhancing the quality and speed of execution compliance benefits total transaction costs technology capabilities, including the reliability, security, and ease of use of our electronic trading platforms and range of products, protocols and services offered. we believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors. our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our clients with our electronic trading platforms and other systems. we have focused on the unique aspects of the markets we serve in the development of our platforms, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. our broker-dealer clients have invested in building api's with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. we believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to use our services however, the contractual obligations of such clients are non-exclusive. see the risk factor captioned we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. furthermore, a significant number of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. we believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor clients on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry. technology the design and quality of our technology products are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. our electronic trading platforms have been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. the platforms are built on industry-standard technologies and have been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume. all critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. this offers redundant system capacity designed to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. we also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. the majority of our broker-dealer clients and a significant number of our institutional investor clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption. we have designed our primary application with an easy-to-use, windows-based interface. our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. we provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention. we prioritize security throughout our platforms, operations and software development. we make architectural, design and implementation choices to structurally address security risks, such as logical and physical access controls, perimeter firewall protection and embedded security processes in our systems development lifecycle. our cyber security program is based on the national institute of standards and technology cyber security framework (the framework ). the framework consists of standards, guidelines and best practices to manage cybersecurity-related risks and promote the protection and resilience of critical infrastructure. our global chief information security officer leads a cyber security team in assessing, managing and reducing the relevant risks with a goal to assure critical operations and continuous delivery of service. we constantly monitor connectivity, and suspect events are escalated to our global risk and management teams. 17 intellectual property we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. our software code, elements of our electronic trading platforms, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. we have been issued 13 patents covering significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology. the written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights. we have registered the marketaxess name and logo for trademark in the u.s., europe and in other parts of the world. we also have a number of other registered or pending trademarks and service marks globally, including open trading , bondticker , trax , and now you're in the market , among others. in addition, we own, or have filed applications for, the rights to trade names, copyrights, domain names and service marks that we use in the marketing of products and services to clients. in addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position. government regulation the securities industry and financial markets in the u.s. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. in these jurisdictions, government regulators and self-regulatory organizations oversee the conduct of our business, and have broad powers to promulgate and interpret laws, rules and regulations that may serve to restrict or limit our business. as a matter of public policy, these regulators are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. our active broker-dealer and regulated venue subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations. rulemaking by regulators, including resulting market structure changes, has had an impact on our business by directly affecting our method of operation and, at times, our profitability. as registered broker-dealers, trading venues and other types of regulated entities as described below, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to laws, rules and regulations (including the rules of self-regulatory organizations) that cover all aspects of their business, including manner of operation, system integrity, anti-money laundering and financial crimes, handling of material non-public information, safeguarding data, capital requirements, reporting, record retention, market access, licensing of employees and the conduct of officers, employees and other associated persons. regulation can impose, and has imposed, obligations on our regulated subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries. these increased obligations require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls, which have increased our costs. many of our regulators, as well as other governmental authorities, are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings, examinations, inspections and investigations, which may result in increased compliance costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, increased financial and capital requirements, additional restrictions or limitations, censure, suspension or disqualification of the entity and/or its officers, employees or other associated persons, or other sanctions, such as disgorgement, restitution or the revocation or limitation of regulatory approvals. whether or not resulting in adverse findings, regulatory proceedings, examinations, inspections and investigations can require substantial expenditures of time and money and can have an adverse impact on a firm's reputation, client relationships and profitability. from time to time, we and our associated persons have been and are subject to routine reviews, none of which to date have had a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. as a result of such reviews, and any future actions or reviews, we may be required to, among other things, amend certain internal structures and frameworks such as our operating procedures, systems and controls. 18 the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to constant change. we are unable to predict how certain new laws and proposed rules and regulations will be implemented or in what form, or whether any changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, including the interpretation, implementation or enforcement thereof or a relaxation or amendment thereof, will occur in the future. we believe that uncertainty and potential delays around the final form of certain new rules and regulations may negatively impact our clients and trading volumes in certain markets in which we transact, although a relaxation of or the amendment of existing rules and requirements could potentially have a positive impact in certain markets. while we generally believe the net impact of the laws, rules and regulations may be positive for our business, it is possible that unintended consequences may materially adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. see the risk factor captioned our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. u.s. regulation in the u.s., the sec is the federal governmental agency primarily responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws, including adopting and enforcing rules and regulations applicable to broker-dealers. one of our broker-dealers is registered with the sec as a broker-dealer and operates an alternative trading system ( ats ) subject to the sec's regulation ats, which includes certain specific requirements and compliance responsibilities in addition to those faced by broker-dealers generally. another of our broker-dealers operates an exempt ats for u.s. treasuries. broker-dealers are also subject to regulation by state securities administrators in those states in which they conduct business or have registered to do business. we are also subject to the various anti-fraud provisions of the securities act of 1933 as amended (the securities act ), the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), the commodity exchange act, certain state securities laws and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. we also may be subject to vicarious and controlling person liability for the activities of our subsidiaries and our officers, employees and affiliated persons. the cftc is the federal agency primarily responsible for the administration of federal laws governing activities relating to futures, swaps and other derivatives, including the rules applicable to our sef. our sef is subject to regulations that relate to trading and product requirements, governance and disciplinary requirements, operational capabilities, surveillance obligations and financial information and resource requirements, including the requirement that they maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. much of the regulation of broker-dealers' operations in the united states has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations. these self-regulatory organizations adopt rules (which are generally subject to approval by the sec) that govern the operations of broker-dealers and conduct periodic inspections and examinations of their operations. in the case of our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, the principal self-regulatory organization is finra. our u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both scheduled and unscheduled examinations by the sec and finra. in addition, our broker-dealers' municipal securities-related activities are subject to the rules of the msrb. following the 2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators in the united states adopted new laws and regulations, including the dodd-frank act. several of these rules could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, which could negatively impact the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platforms. for example, while the volcker rule does not apply directly to us, the volcker rule bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. in addition, enhanced leverage ratios applicable to large banking organizations in the u.s. and europe require such organizations to strengthen their balance sheets and may limit their ability or willingness to make markets on our trading platform. we cannot predict the extent to which these rules or any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, title vii of the dodd-frank act ( title vii ) amended the commodity exchange act and the exchange act to establish a regulatory framework for swaps, subject to regulation by the cftc, and security-based swaps, subject to regulation by the sec. the cftc has implemented the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect. the sec has also finalized many of its security-based swap regulations, although a significant number are not yet in effect. among other things, title vii rules require certain standardized swaps to be cleared through a central clearinghouse and/or traded on a designated contract market or sef, subject to various exceptions. title vii also requires the registration and regulation of certain market participants, including sefs. the sec has proposed but not yet finalized its rules relating to the registration and regulation of security-based swap execution facilities ( sbsefs ). if and when the sec finalizes these rules, we may register one of our subsidiaries as a sbsef in order to offer trading in certain security-based swaps. 19 the current administration under president tru m p has sought, and already passed legislation, to roll-back key pieces of the dodd-frank act in an effort to loosen certain regulatory restrictions on financial institutions. although the current administration has indicated a goal of further reforming aspects of its existing financial services regulations, it is unknown at this time to what extent new legislation will be passed into law or whether pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted or modified, or what effect such passage, adoption or modification will have, whether positive or negative, on our industry, our clients or us. in particular, there can be no assurance that rules impacting our clients will be amended or repealed, and we continue to expect the industry to be more heavily regulated than it was prior to the 2008 financial crisis. non-u.s. regulation outside of the united states, we are currently regulated by: the fca in the united kingdom ( u.k. ), de nederlandsche bank ( dnb ) and the afm in the netherlands, the securities futures commission (the sfc ) of hong kong, the monetary authority of singapore (the mas ), the australian securities and investment commission in australia (the asic ) and the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and provincial regulators in canada and securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. the fca's strategic objective is to ensure that the relevant markets function well and its operational objectives are to protect consumers, to protect and enhance the integrity of the u.k. financial system and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. it has investigative and enforcement powers derived from the financial services and markets act 2000 ( fsma ) and subsequent legislation and regulations. subject to the fsma, individuals or companies that seek to acquire or increase their control in a firm that the fca regulates is required to obtain prior approval from the fca. the legal framework in the netherlands for financial undertakings is predominantly included in the dutch financial supervision act ( fsa ). the afm, like dnb, is an autonomous administrative authority with independent responsibility for fulfilling its supervisory function. pursuant to the fsa, the afm authorizes investment firms. the afm is legally responsible for business supervision. dnb is responsible for prudential supervision. the purpose of prudential supervision is to ensure the solidity of financial undertakings and to contribute to the stability of the financial sector. holders of a qualifying holding (in short, shareholdings or voting rights of 10% or more) must apply to the dnb for a declaration of no objection and satisfy the applicable requirements of the fsa. the european union ( e.u. ) has recently enhanced the existing laws and developed new rules and regulations targeted at the financial services industry, including mifid ii and mifir, which were implemented in january 2018 and which introduced significant changes to the e.u. financial markets designed to facilitate more efficient markets and greater transparency for participants. similar to the u.s., regulatory bodies in europe have recently implemented new rules for the fixed-income markets. mifid ii and mifir were implemented in 2018 and introduced significant changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed-income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to arms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues, (iv) improve technology synchronization and best execution and (v) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. mifid ii is also intended to help improve the functioning of the e.u. single market by achieving a greater consistency of regulatory standards. mifid ii has caused us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, to incur additional operational costs and has created additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. while we generally believe the net impact of the rules and regulations will be positive for our businesses, unintended consequences of the rules and regulations may adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. the securities industry in the member states of the e.u. is regulated by agencies in each member state. e.u. regulations provide for a cross-border passporting regime , which allows us to provide our services throughout the e.u. in reliance upon our authorization from any e.u. member state. historically, we have utilized the fca authorizations held by our u.k. regulated subsidiaries in order to provide regulated services to our european clients outside of the u.k. in reliance on this passport. however, the u.k. ceased to be a member of the e.u. on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ), triggering a period during which the u.k. will continue to observe applicable e.u. regulations through december 31, 2020 or any later extension date (the transition period ). in preparation for brexit, we obtained afm authorizations for our subsidiaries in the netherlands in 2019 and, during the transition period, we are able to provide regulated services to our european clients in reliance on the cross-border services passport held by our dutch subsidiaries. the full effects of brexit will depend on whether the u.k. is able to retain access to e.u. markets, including for financial services, following the transition period. although negotiations to determine the future terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u. are continuing, based upon the current state of those negotiations, we expect that we will rely on our dutch subsidiaries to provide our trading platforms and certain post-trade services to our clients in the e.u. following the transition period. see the risk factor captioned the u.k. exit from the european union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 20 capital requirements certain of our subsidiaries are subject to jurisdictional specific regulatory capital requirements, designed to maintain the general financial integrity and liquidity of a regulated entity. in general they require that at least a minimum amount of a regulated entity's assets be kept in relatively liquid form. failure to maintain required minimum capital may subject a regulated subsidiary to a fine, requirement to cease conducting business, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by the applicable regulatory authorities, and ultimately could require the relevant entity's liquidation. regulatory status of marketaxess entities our operations span jurisdictions across the americas, europe and asia, and we operate through various regulated entities. the current regulatory status of many of our business entities is described below. we also provide our platform in other countries pursuant to exemptions from registration under the laws of such countries. americas marketaxess corporation is a sec registered broker-dealer, a member of finra, the msrb, and the securities investor protection corporation ( sipc ) and is authorized by the australian securities and investments commission ( aisc ) to operate an exempt market. marketaxess canada company is registered as an alternative trading system with the ontario securities commission ( osc ), the autorit des march financiers ( amf ), the british columbia securities commission ( bcsc ) and the alberta securities commission ( asc ) and is a member of the investment industry regulatory organization of canada ( iiroc ). marketaxess plataforma de negociacao ltda. is authorized through its parent (marketaxess holdings inc.) by comiss o de valores mobili rios ( cvm ) and bacen (central bank of brazil) to provide a system in brazil for the trading of fixed income securities by sophisticated institutional investors. marketaxess colombia corporation is registered with the superintendence of finance of colombia ( sofc ) as an information system. liquidityedge is a sec registered broker-dealer, a member of finra, the sipc and is recognized as a financial market supervisory authority ( finma ) in switzerland as a foreign trading venue. u.k. and europe marketaxess capital limited is authorized and regulated by the fca as a mifid investment firm and acts as a matched principal counterparty for open trading transactions. marketaxess europe limited is authorized and regulated by the fca to operate a multilateral trading facility ( mtf ). marketaxess europe limited may provide services throughout the european economic area ( eea ) under the mifid passport. in addition, marketaxess europe limited is approved by finma in switzerland as a foreign trading venue, by the sfc in hong kong as an automated trading service, and is authorized by asic to operate an exempt market. in respect of australia, following amendments to the australian corporations act, an application for an overseas australian market operator license is pending with asic. marketaxess nl b.v. is authorized and regulated by the afm in the netherlands as an mtf. marketaxess nl b.v. may provide services throughout the eea under the mifid passport and is approved by finma to provide cross-border services into switzerland as a foreign trading venue. trax nl b.v. is licensed in the netherlands by the afm as a data reporting services provider ( drsp ), specifically to act as an arm and apa. xtrakter limited is authorized and regulated by the fca as a drsp for arm and apa services and as a service company. liquidityedge uk limited is authorized and regulated by the fca as a mifid investment firm. 21 asia and pacific marketaxess singapore pte. limited is approved by the monetary authority of singapore as a recognized market operator. additionally, marketaxess singapore pte. limited is approved by finma in switzerland as a foreign trading venue, by hong kong as an ats, and by germany as a foreign market operator. employees as of december 31, 2019, we had 527 employees, 325 of whom were based in the u.s. and 202 of whom were based outside of the u.s., principally in the u.k. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. company information marketaxess was incorporated in delaware in april 2000. our internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. through our internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the sec: our annual report on form 10-k our quarterly reports on form 10-q our current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. our proxy statements for our annual meetings are also available through our internet website. our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. you may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: marketaxess holdings inc. 55 hudson yards new york, ny 10001 attn: investor relations our board of directors has standing audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance, risk and investment committees. each of these committees has a written charter approved by our board of directors and our board of directors has also adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines. copies of the committee charters and the corporate governance guidelines are also posted on our website. the sec maintains an internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the company) file electronically with the sec. the sec's internet website is www.sec.gov. 22 item 1a. risk factors. risks related to our business generally risks related to global economic and market conditions global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. the global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the u.s. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these factors include: economic and political conditions in the united states, europe and elsewhere adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading broad trends in business and finance consolidation or contraction in the number of market participants actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities actual or threatened trade war, including between the united states and china, or other governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements or trade policies concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds, exchange traded funds and other wholesale and retail investors the level and volatility of interest rates, the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities and foreign currency exchange rates the effect of federal reserve board monetary policy, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements and political impasses credit availability and other liquidity concerns concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities and legislative and regulatory changes, including changes to financial industry regulations and tax laws. there have been significant declines in trading volumes in the financial markets generally in the past and there may be similar declines in trading volumes generally or across our platforms in particular in the future. any one or more of the above factors may contribute to reduced trading volumes. our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the u.s. and global financial markets. the u.k. exit from the european union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the u.k. ceased to be a member of the e.u. on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ), triggering a period during which the u.k. will continue to observe applicable e.u. regulations through december 31, 2020 or any later extension date (the transition period ). based upon the current state of the negotiations between the u.k. and e.u., we expect that regulated financial services firms, including our u.k. subsidiaries, will lose their passporting rights to automatically operate throughout the e.u. following the transition period. this future loss of the existing passport right to the e.u. will affect us and many of our clients. for us, it means that we will have to rely on our dutch regulated subsidiaries to provide our trading platforms and certain post-trade services to our clients in the e.u. 23 b rexit has significantly affect ed the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in both the u.k. and e.u., and could have a material impact on their economies and the future growth of various industries. in particular, the ecosystem of the e.u. financial services industry in which we operate, which prior to brexit has been heavily centered in london, has become more decentralized. the exit of the u.k. has significantly impact ed the business environment in which we and our clients operate, increase d the cost of conducting business in both the e.u. and the u.k., and introduce significant new uncertainties with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our clients are subject. as we have historically conduct ed business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries, we have new regulatory and operational costs and challenges associated with the establishment of our subsidiaries in the netherlands and the management of a less centralized customer and employee base. we could also be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. brexit is expected to lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate, which may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject. in addition, the cost and complexity of operating across increasingly divergent regulatory regimes could increase following brexit. brexit has also required us to make changes to the technology underlying our trading platforms and regulatory reporting systems in the u.k. and e.u., which has resulted in new regulatory and operational costs and challenges. changes to u.k. immigration policy will also occur as a result of brexit and our access to, and our ability to compete for and hire, skilled employees in both the u.k. and the e.u. is expected to become more constrained. although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of the exit of the u.k. from the e.u., any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to operating in the electronic fixed-income trading markets decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platforms would harm our business and profitability. we have experienced significant decreases in overall market volumes in the past and may experience similar decreases in market volumes in the future. declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platforms and fees generated from related activities. likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platforms and, consequently, lower commissions and revenue. during periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. in addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. our market share of the fixed-income trading markets is also impacted by a variety of other factors, including the amount of new issuances of corporate debt, the level of bond fund inflows or outflows, the percentage of volumes comprised of rule 144a transactions, the percentage of volumes comprised of larger trades known as block trades', the level of credit spreads and credit volatility and whether the prevalent market environment is an offer wanted or bid wanted environment. a decline in overall market volumes, trading volumes on our platforms or in our platforms' market share for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is rapidly evolving. if we are unable to adapt our business effectively to keep pace with industry changes, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by rapidly changing and increasingly complex technologies and systems, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands (including access to new technologies and markets), frequent technology and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing regulatory requirements and new business models. if we are not able to keep pace with changing market conditions or client demands and if our competitors release new functionality or technology before we do, our existing platforms, solutions and technologies may become obsolete or our competitive position may be materially harmed, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. operating in a rapidly evolving industry involves a high degree of risk and our future success will depend in part on our ability to: 24 attract and retain market participants on our platform on a cost-effective basis expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings for our clients respond effectively to competitive pressures respond effectively to the loss of any of our significant broker-dealer or institutional investor clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients) diversify our sources of revenues maintain adequate control of our expenses operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems defend our trading platforms and other systems from cybersecurity threats manage growth in personnel and operations increase awareness of our brand or market positioning expand our sales and marketing programs take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities and respond to regulatory changes or demands. if we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platforms, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platforms. for example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. the success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. in addition, the market for our electronic trading platforms may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. we cannot assure you that any new features and versions will become or remain successful. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to competition we face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. the fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. within our markets, we compete based on our ability to provide our clients with deep liquidity, a broad network of market participants, a wide range of products and protocols, and comprehensive pre-trade, trade and post-trade functionality, as well as the reliability, security and ease of use of our electronic platforms and solutions, among other factors. we primarily compete with other electronic trading platforms and trading businesses conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone, email or instant messaging. our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: other multi-party electronic trading platforms market data and information vendors securities and futures exchanges inter-dealer brokerage firms 25 technology, software, and information services or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors and other approved regulatory mechanisms. many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. these competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. in addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and client requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified due to consolidation, which has resulted in increasingly large and sophisticated competitors. in recent years, our competitors have made acquisitions and/or entered into joint ventures and consortia to improve the competitiveness of their electronic trading offerings. if, as a result of industry consolidation, our competitors are able to offer lower cost and/or a wider range of trading venues and solutions, obtain more favorable terms from third-party providers or otherwise take actions that could increase their market share, our competitive position and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our operations also include the sale of pre- and post-trade services, analytics and market data. there is a high degree of competition among market data and information vendors in solutions for pre- and post-trade data, analytics and reporting, and such businesses may become more competitive in the future as new competitors emerge. some of these companies are already in or may enter the electronic trading business. accordingly, some of our competitors may be able to combine use of their electronic trading platforms with complementary access to market data and analytical tools and/or leverage relationships with existing clients to obtain additional business from such clients, which could preempt use of our platforms or solutions. for example, bloomberg, refinitiv and ice own trading platforms that compete with ours and also have a data and analytics relationships with the vast majority of institutional, wholesale and retail market participants. if we are not able to compete successfully in this area in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. risks related to our future levels of business, profitability and growth neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. the success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of market participants that use our electronic trading platforms. our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platforms by these participants for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platforms. we cannot assure you that the growth of electronic means of trading securities that we have experienced in recent years will continue. our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. we currently derive approximately 48.1% of our revenues from secondary trading in u.s. high-grade corporate bonds. our long-term business strategy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. we have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. we cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. we may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. from time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the market segments in which we operate. any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. we cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. it is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 in addition, under certain of our fee plans, our fees are designated in basis points in yield (and, as a result, are subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded) or our fees vary based on trade size or maturity. we anticipate that our average fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. if we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: the unpredictability of the financial services industry difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients our ability to drive an increase in the use of our electronic trading platforms by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients changes in our fee plans the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platforms the effectiveness of our sales force new product and service introductions by us or our competitors fluctuations in overall market trading volume or our market share for our key products technical difficulties or interruptions in our service general economic conditions in our geographic markets additional investment in our services or operations and new regulations that limit or affect how our electronic trading platforms can operate or which increase our regulatory compliance costs. as a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, as has occurred in the past, which could result in decreases in our stock price. as we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platforms to enter new markets, including new asset classes, products and geographies, including markets where we have little or no operating experience. we may have difficulties identifying and entering into new markets due to established competitors, lack of recognition of our brand and lack of acceptance of our platforms and solutions, as has occurred with certain of our initiatives in the past. expansion, particularly in new geographic markets, may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time. in particular, we may need to make additional investments in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. furthermore, our expansion efforts may divert management's attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. if we are not able to manage our expansion effectively, our expansion costs could increase at a faster rate than our revenues from these new markets. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage our expansion, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in any new markets. even if we do adapt our products, services and technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients to our platforms and compete successfully in any such new markets. we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. if these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. 27 risks related to our geographic and customer concentration our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by an adverse change in the regions in which we operate. historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the u.s. and the u.k. while we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas. accordingly, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these two countries, such as brexit. moreover, due to the concentration of our operations in these areas, such operations are less diversified and, accordingly, are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. if we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. we rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide liquidity on our electronic trading platforms by posting prices for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. the contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and many of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. these competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers' primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. if bank-affiliated entities reduce their trading activity and that activity is not replaced by other market participants, the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our operating results. in the u.s., the volcker rule section of the dodd-frank act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities. in addition, over the past several years, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries and several of our large broker-dealer clients have reduced their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income products. further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes. any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platforms by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the volume of trading on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. we rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platforms and, increasingly, to provide liquidity through our open trading protocols. a limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. the obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. our institutional investor clients also buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone, e-mail and instant messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. the loss of a major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platforms by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. credit and market risks we are exposed to risks in connection with certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary. in connection with our anonymous trading protocols, we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. settlement typically occurs within one to two trading days after the trade date. cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. 28 we are exposed to credit and performance risks in our role as matched principal trading counterparty to the clients on our platform , including the risk that counterparties that owe us money or securities will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. in connection with open trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. in the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise that involve substantial risks of liability. these risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, the settlement of the trade, or claims that we resolved an error trade dispute incorrectly or that a system malfunction or delay caused monetary loss to a client. in addition, because of the ease and speed with which trades can be executed on our electronic platforms, clients can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade instructions or by entering trade orders inaccurately. a significant error trade or a large number of error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade on our platforms. although we maintain error trade policies designed to protect our anonymous trading participants and enable us to manage the risks attendant in acting as a matched principal counterparty, depending on the cause, number and value of the trades that are the subject of an alleged error or dispute, such trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are required to hold a securities position as a result of an error, there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. we have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk. in connection with the recent growth of our open trading protocols, and our acquisition of liquidityedge, we have implemented additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure. there can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. if our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. self-clearing will expose us to significant operational, financial and liquidity risks we intend to begin self-clearing substantially all of our bond transactions for our u.s. operations in the first half of 2020 and we may expand self-clearing to our foreign operations in the future. self-clearing requires us to finance transactions and maintain margin deposits at clearing organizations. self-clearing exposes our business to operational risks, including business and technology disruption, operational inefficiencies, liquidity and financing risks and potentially increased expenses. we may encounter difficulties that may lead to operating inefficiencies, including technology issues, dissatisfaction amongst our client base, disruption in the infrastructure that supports the business, inadequate liquidity, increased margin requirements with clearing organizations and third-party settlement agents who provide financing with respect to transactions, reductions in available borrowing capacity and financial loss. any such delay, disruption, expense or failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and manage our exposure to risk. moreover, any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail. the fixed-income products that can be traded through our open trading functionality, as well as our investments in fixed and variable rate debt financial instruments, are subject to significant interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. to manage these and the risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, legal, regulatory, operational and market risks. our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. if our risk-management policies and efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. 29 our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. while we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory, operational and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed. technology and it systems risks rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. we must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platforms. the electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients' needs and preferences and new business models. if new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platforms may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. developing our electronic trading platforms and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platforms, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. if we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our platforms and use those of our competitors. further, the adoption of new internet, networking, telecommunications or blockchain technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. we depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. we rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. we cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. if we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in particular, we depend on third-party vendors for our bond reference databases, the clearing and settlement of our open trading transactions and to provide the technology underpinning our u.s. treasury platform. we obtain essential reference data and information services from external sources, including data received from certain competitors, clients, self-regulatory organizations and other third-party data providers. our reference data sources and information providers could increase the price for or withdraw their data or information services for a variety of reasons. further, as has occurred in the past, our competitors could revise the current terms on which they provide us with data or information services or could cease providing us with data or information services altogether for a variety of reasons, including competition. disruptions in the services provided by those third-parties to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products or provide technology services that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 we also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, cloud computing and software and hardware vendors. other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. we cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. we license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. we also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. adverse changes in any of these relationships has in the past had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our third-party service providers. these contracts usually have multi-year terms. however, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and use of technology. our success depends on maintaining the integrity and capacity of our electronic trading platforms, systems and infrastructure. in order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platforms for our clients. if our trading platforms cannot cope, or expand to cope, with demand, or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in service, slow delivery times and insufficient capacity. these consequences could result in our clients deciding to stop using or reduce their use of our platforms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to continually improve and upgrade our electronic trading platforms and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. the expansion of our electronic trading platforms and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. these resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platforms, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. the inability of our electronic trading platforms to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. systems failures, interruptions, delays in service, catastrophic events and resulting interruptions in the availability of our trading platforms could materially harm our business and reputation. our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our trading platforms, systems, networks and infrastructure. we cannot assure you that we, or our third-party providers, will not experience systems failures or business interruptions, as has occurred in the past. our systems, networks, infrastructure and other operations, in particular our trading platforms, are vulnerable to impact or interruption from a wide variety of causes, including: irregular or heavy use of our trading platforms during peak trading times or at times of increased market volatility power, internet or telecommunications failures hardware failures or software errors human error, acts of vandalism or sabotage catastrophic events, such as natural disasters, extreme weather events or acts of war or terrorism malicious cyberattacks or cyber incidents, such as unauthorized access, ransomware, loss or destruction of data, computer viruses or other malicious code and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control, such as loss of support services from critical third-party providers. in addition, we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and/or increased costs associated with such usage. 31 any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems, networks or infrastructure has in the past, and could in the future , result in: disruption to our operations, including disruptions in service to our clients slower response times distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to clients who rely on this data for their trades delays in trade execution incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, networks or infrastructure financial losses and liabilities to clients loss of clients legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, penalties or fines. any system failure or significant interruption, delay or disruption in our operations, or decreases in the responsiveness of our platforms , could materially harm our reputation and business and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our platforms . we internally support and maintain many of our systems and networks, including those underlying our trading platforms however, we may not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all systems, networks or infrastructure problems. our failure to monitor or maintain our systems, networks and infrastructure, including those maintained or supported by our third-party providers, or to find a replacement for defective or obsolete components within our systems, networks and infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner when necessary, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we generally have disaster recovery and business continuity plans that utilize industry standards and best practices for much of our business, including redundant systems, networks, computer software and hardware and data centers to address interruption to our normal course of business, our systems, networks and infrastructure may not always be fully redundant and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans may not always be sufficient or effective. similarly, although some contracts with our third-party providers, such as our hosting facility providers, require adequate disaster recovery or business continuity capabilities, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. our disaster recovery and business continuity plans are heavily reliant on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so any disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. if we are unable to execute our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, or if our plans prove insufficient for a particular situation or take longer than expected to implement in a crisis situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. if we experience design defects, errors, failures or delays with our platforms, products or services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, our business could suffer serious harm. our platforms, products and services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, may and have from time to time contained design defects and errors when first introduced or when new updates or enhancements are released. in our development of new protocols, platform features and updates and enhancements to our existing platforms, products and services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, we may make a design error that causes the platform, protocol or feature to operate incorrectly or less effectively. many of our protocols also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have limited or no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. our clients may also use our platforms, products or services together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. if design defects, errors or failures are discovered in our current or future platforms or protocols, we may not be able to correct or work around them in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. the existence of design defects, errors, failures or delays that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could also result in rejection or delay in market acceptance of our platform or protocols, damage to our reputation, loss of clients and related revenues, diversion of resources, product liability claims, regulatory actions or increases in costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 32 cybersecurity risks malicious cyber-attacks and other adverse events affecting our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses or regulatory penalties. the operation of our electronic trading platforms relies on the secure processing, storage and transmission of a large amount of transactional data and other confidential sensitive data (including confidential client and personal information). our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and personal customer information), unavailability or disruption of service, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, or other malicious code, cyber-attack and other adverse events that could have an adverse security impact. despite the defensive measures we have taken, we are, and will continue to be, subject to attacks, which may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom we have granted access to our computer systems. if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential or personal information, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. our business also depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our platforms, systems, networks and infrastructure. any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, our systems, networks or infrastructure due to a cyber-attack could result in: disruption to our operations, including disruptions in service to our clients slower response times distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to clients who rely on this data for their trades delays in trade execution incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, networks or infrastructure financial losses and liabilities to clients loss of clients legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, penalties or fines. we also face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints of any of the third-party service providers that facilitate our business activities, including clients, clearing agents and trading system software, network or data providers. such parties could also be the source of a cyber-attack on or breach of our operational systems, data or infrastructure. any system failure or significant interruption, delay or disruption in our operations, or decreases in the responsiveness of our platforms, could materially harm our reputation and business and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our trading platform. there have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks in recent years in various industries, including ours, and cyber-security risk management has been the subject of increasing focus by our regulators. our regulators in recent years have increased their examination and enforcement focus on matters relating to cybersecurity threats, including the assessment of firms' vulnerability to cyber-attacks. in particular, regulatory concerns have been raised about firms establishing effective cybersecurity governance and risk management policies, practices and procedures protecting firm networks and information identifying and addressing risks associated with clients, vendors, and other third parties preventing and detecting unauthorized activities adopting effective mitigation and business continuity plans to address the impact of cybersecurity breaches and establishing protocols for reporting cybersecurity incidents. any insurance that we may have that covers a specific cybersecurity incident would not protect us from the effects of adverse regulatory actions that may result from the incident or a finding that we had inadequate cybersecurity controls, including the reputational harm that could result from such regulatory actions. our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber-attack. if an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platforms. we may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. we may be found liable to our clients for any misappropriated confidential or personal information. although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. 33 intellectual property risks we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platforms or any of our other current or future functionalities, products or services. this could adversely affect our ability to compete. intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. we attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we have been issued 13 patents covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. for instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. we may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. in addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if our efforts to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates, dilutes or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our technology, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. in the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. as the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. from time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible result in significant monetary liability divert management's attention and resources and require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us, as they have done in the past, with respect to our electronic trading platforms or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 risks related to possible transactions or investments if we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. from time to time, we may consider acquisitions, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be as beneficial to us as expected. we have made acquisitions in the past, including the purchase of xtrakter in 2013 and liquidityedge in 2019. we also may consider potential divestitures of businesses from time to time. we routinely evaluate potential acquisition and divestiture candidates and engage in discussions and negotiations regarding potential acquisitions and divestitures on an ongoing basis however, even if we execute a definitive agreement, there can be no assurance that we will consummate the transaction within the anticipated closing timeframe, or at all. moreover, there is significant competition for acquisition and expansion opportunities in the electronic financial services industry. if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments may involve a number of risks, including: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product and exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. if we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. to the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. in addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. if we enter into strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures, we may not realize the anticipated strategic goals for any such transactions. from time to time, we may enter into strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures as a means to accelerate our entry into new markets, provide new solutions or enhance our existing capabilities. entering into strategic alliances, partnerships and joint ventures entails risks, including: (i) difficulties in developing or expanding the business of newly formed alliances, partnerships and joint ventures (ii) exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest (iii) potential conflicts with or among our partners (iv) the possibility that our partners could take action without our approval or prevent us from taking action and (v) the possibility that our partners become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations. 35 in addition, there may be a long negotiation period before we enter into a strategic alliance, partnership or joint venture or a long preparation period before we commence providing the intended product or solution and/or begin earning revenues pursuant to such arrangement. we typically incur significant business development expenses, and management's attention may be diverted from the operation of our existing business, during the discussion and negotiation period with no guarantee of consummation of the proposed transaction. even if we succeed in developing a strategic alliance, partnership or joint venture with a new partner, we may not be successful in maintaining the relationship, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, or that any strategic alliance, partnership or joint ventures we have entered into or may enter into will be successful. in particular, these arrangements may not generate the expected number of new clients or increased trading volume or other benefits we seek. unsuccessful strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures, or those that do not fully meet our expectations, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. we assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment. determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires judgement which requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. risks related to key personnel and employees we are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly richard m. mcvey, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. the terms of mr. mcvey's employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and other key personnel. although we have invested in succession plans and we have short-term contingency plans in place, any loss or interruption of mr. mcvey's services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss or interruption, could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. we strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our clients. our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, product managers and senior sales executives. the market for qualified personnel has become increasingly competitive as an increasing number of existing and new competitors focus on the electronic trading of fixed income products. many of these competitive ventures are interested in hiring our experienced technology personnel and our qualified sales staff. additionally, highly innovative technology firms may offer attractive employment opportunities to our technology personnel. many of these firms have greater resources than we have and are able to offer more lucrative compensation packages. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. the failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 regulatory risks we operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations. these regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. the sec, finra, the cftc and other agencies extensively regulate the united states financial services industry, including most of our operations in the united states. much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the fca in the u.k., the afm in the netherlands, the swiss financial market supervisory authority in switzerland, the monetary authority of singapore, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the investment industry regulatory organization of canada and provincial regulators in canada, and the securities and exchange commission and central bank in brazil. in addition, xtrakter is registered as an arm and apa with the fca and the afm. as a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. these regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. most aspects of our broker-dealer and other licensed subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: the way we deal with our clients our capital requirements our financial and regulatory reporting practices required record-keeping and record retention procedures the licensing of our employees and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. we cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in finra and registration as a broker-dealer. certain of our regulated subsidiaries, including our registered broker-dealers and mtf, are subject to u.s. or foreign regulations which prohibit repayment of borrowings from us or our affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary's principal regulator. marketaxess sef corporation is registered with the cftc as a sef and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. our ability to operate our platform in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. our systems and procedures may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. in addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. in addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all. even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. the implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. for a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see item 1. business government regulation. 37 some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. these regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of marketaxess. as a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. our business, and the business of many of our clients, is subject to extensive regulation. governmental and regulatory authorities periodically review legislative and regulatory initiatives, and may promulgate new or revised, or adopt changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing, rules and regulations at any time. any such changes in laws, rules or regulations or in governmental policies could create additional regulatory exposure for our business, cause us to incur significant additional costs, require us to change or cease aspects of our business or restrict or limit our ability to grow our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there have been in the past, and could be in the future, significant technological, operational and compliance costs associated with the obligations that derive from compliance with evolving laws, rules and regulations. changes in legislation and in the rules and regulations promulgated by domestic and foreign regulators, and how they are applied, often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of dealers and other financial services intermediaries, including our dealer clients, and could result in restrictions in the way we and our clients conduct business. for example, various rules promulgated since the financial crisis, including under the dodd-frank act, could adversely affect our dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of products, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. our business and that of our clients could also be affected by the monetary policies adopted by the federal reserve and foreign central banking authorities, which may affect the credit quality of our clients or increase the cost for our clients to trade certain instruments on our trading platform. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may directly impact our cost of funds for financing and investment activities and may impact the value of the financial instruments we hold. in addition, regulatory bodies in europe have recently developed new rules and regulations targeted at the financial services industry, including mifid ii and mifir which were implemented in january 2018 and which introduced significant changes to the e.u. financial markets designed to facilitate more efficient markets and greater transparency for participants. mifid ii and mifir may have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to offer our trading platforms in a manner that can successfully compete against other methods of trading. additionally, most of the world's major economies have introduced and continue to introduce regulations implementing basel iii, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market liquidity risk. the continued implementation of these and other bank capital standards could restrict the ability of our large bank and dealer customers to raise additional capital or use existing capital for trading purposes, which might cause them to trade less on our trading platforms and diminish transaction velocity. in addition, as regulations are introduced which affect our prudential obligations, the regulatory capital requirements imposed on certain of our subsidiaries may change. we believe that it remains premature to know conclusively how specific aspects of the regulatory developments described above may directly affect our business. we cannot predict whether additional changes to the laws, rules and regulations that govern our business and operations, including changes to their interpretation, implementation or enforcement, will occur in the future or the extent to which any such changes will impact our business and operations. in addition, we cannot predict how current proposals that have not yet been finalized and/or that remain subject to ongoing debate will be implemented or in what form. we believe that uncertainty and potential delays around the final form of such new laws, rules and regulations may negatively impact our clients and trading volumes in certain markets in which we transact. additionally, unintended consequences of such new laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect our industry, our clients and us in ways yet to be determined. any such legal and regulatory changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws, regulations, and obligations could harm our business. certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer and/or publish are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and information security. these laws and regulations govern the storing, sharing, use, processing, transfer, disclosure and protection of personal information and other content. the scope of these laws and regulations are changing, subject to differing interpretations, may be inconsistent among countries or conflict with other rules. we are also subject to the terms of our privacy policies and obligations to third parties related to applicable privacy, data protection, and information security. 38 the regulatory framework for privacy and data protection worldwide is uncertain, and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future, and we expect that there will continue to be new laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection, and information security proposed and enacted in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, european legislators adopted the general data protection regulations ( gdpr ) that became effective in may 2018. the gdpr imposes more stringent e . u . data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance. further, brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the u.k . in particular, it is unclear whether the u . k . will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with the gdpr and how data transfers to and from the u.k. will be regulated. our efforts to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations could entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and could impact our ability to provide certain solutions. additionally, if our third-party providers violate any of these laws or regulations, such violations may also put our operations at risk. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any of our obligations relating to privacy, data protection or information security may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims or negative publicity and could result in significant liability, increased costs or cause our clients to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. the extensive regulation of our business means we have ongoing exposure to potentially significant costs and penalties. our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. many of these regulators, including u.s. and non-u.s. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the u.s., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. self-regulatory organizations such as finra and the national futures association ( nfa ), along with statutory bodies such as the sec, the cftc, and the fca, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the sec, the cftc, finra, the nfa, state securities commissions and state attorney generals in the u.s., and the fca in the u.k. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. legal risks in the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed. employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. misconduct or error by employees could include engaging in improperly using our confidential information or the confidential or personal information of our clients or engaging in improper or unauthorized activities or transactions. our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed. errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. the precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases. we are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. dissatisfied clients have in the past, and may in the future, make claims against us regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, resolution of trade error claims, system failures, failure to protect their confidential or personal information, mismanagement or even fraud. we may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and the services provided by us. we could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 risks related to growing our u.s. and international operations we may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. we operate electronic trading platforms in europe, latin america and asia and we may further expand our operations throughout these and other regions. we have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the increasing globalization of our platform and services. however, there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. these risks include: difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platforms fluctuations in exchange rates reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights seasonal reductions in business activity and potentially adverse tax consequences. our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. in addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. for example, mifid ii and mifir were implemented by regulatory bodies in europe in january 2018. we cannot predict the full extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our european business and operations, but they may cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure. brexit could lead to further legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients' trading activities on our platform. we cannot predict what future actions the regulatory bodies that supervise our business might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources. we have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. the expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. in addition, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service, and the period before the product or service is successfully developed, introduced and adopted may extend over many months or years. even after incurring these costs, our clients may determine that they do not need or prefer the product or service. we may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. if we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 40 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. we conduct operations in several different countries outside the u.s., most notably the u.k., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies. since our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our net investment in our u.k. subsidiaries and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-u.s. denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. liquidity and funding risks we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit agreement are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: support more rapid growth of our business develop new or enhanced services and products fund operating losses respond to competitive pressures acquire complementary companies or technologies enter into strategic alliances increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations or respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements. the growth of our open trading protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. in addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us. all or part of any debt financing could be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with jpmorgan chase co., which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. for a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the risk factor captioned our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. these limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. we are party to a credit agreement with jpmorgan chase co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $100.0 million. subject to the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the borrowing capacity of the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million. our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, may restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. these covenants may restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: 41 incur or guarantee additional debt create or incur liens change our line of business sell or transfer assets make certain investments or acquisitions pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments consummate a merger or consolidation enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions enter into certain transactions with affiliates and incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions. we are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum net regulatory capital balance for certain subsidiaries and a minimum consolidated adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ( ebitda ) level. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. a breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. if any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. the lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. we may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. risks related to our internal controls as a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management's attention from our business. we are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ) and the related sec rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. while our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in sox, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of sox. if we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of sox in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. in addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us. risks related to our common stock market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. the market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: the other risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k prevailing interest rates the market for similar securities changes in the nature of our stockholder base 42 additional issuances of common stock general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. most of these factors are beyond our control. in addition, the stock markets in general, including the nasdaq global select market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. if any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales. we may decrease or cease paying dividends on our common stock in the future. there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future or, if we continue paying dividends, that such dividends will be paid at the rate at which they were paid in prior periods. if we were to decrease the dividend rate or cease paying dividends, investors may need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the primary or only way to realize any future gains on their investment. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. these analysts work independently of us. if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from calling special meetings allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval and set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings. provisions of delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. in addition, certain of our executives have severance agreements that could require an acquirer to pay a higher price. either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. 43